<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Fonds de Cuisine</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<p class="part">Part I <span>Fundamental Elements of Cooking</span></p>
		<h1>Chapter I <span epub:type="title">Fonds de Cuisine</span></h1>
		<p><span class="first-words">Before</span> undertaking the description of the different kinds of dishes whose recipes I purpose giving in this work, it will be necessary to reveal the groundwork whereon these recipes are built. And, although this has already been done again and again, and is wearisome in the extreme, a text-book on cooking that did not include it would be not only incomplete, but in many cases incomprehensible.</p>
		<p>Notwithstanding the fact that it is the usual procedure, in matters culinary, to insist upon the importance of the part played by stock, I feel compelled to refer to it at the outset of this work, and to lay even further stress upon what has already been written on the subject.</p>
		<p>Indeed, stock is everything in cooking, at least in French cooking. Without it, nothing can be done. If one’s stock is good, what remains of the work is easy; if, on the other hand, it is bad or merely mediocre, it is quite hopeless to expect anything approaching a satisfactory result.</p>
		<p>The workman mindful of success, therefore, will naturally direct his attention to the faultless preparation of his stock, and, in order to achieve this result, he will find it necessary not merely to make use of the freshest and finest goods, but also to exercise the most scrupulous care in their preparation, for, in cooking, care is half the battle. Unfortunately, no theories, no formulæ, and no recipes, however well written, can take the place of practical experience in the acquisition of a full knowledge concerning this part of the work—the most important, the most essential, and certainly the most difficult part.</p>
		<p>In the matter of stock it is, above all, necessary to have a sufficient quantity of the finest materials at one’s disposal. The master or mistress of a house who stints in this respect thereby deliberately forfeits his or her right to make any remark whatsoever to the <em>chef</em> concerning his work, for, let the talent or merits of the latter be what they may, they are crippled by insufficient or inferior material. It is just as absurd to exact excellent cooking from a <em>chef</em> whom one provides with defective or scanty goods, as to hope to obtain wine from a bottled decoction of logwood.</p>
		<h2>The Principal Kinds of Fonds de Cuisine (Foundation Sauces and Stocks)</h2>
		<p>The principal kinds of fonds de cuisine are:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>Ordinary and clarified consommés.</li>
			<li>The brown stock or “<em xml:lang="fr">estouffade</em>”, game stocks, the bases of thickened gravies and of brown sauces.</li>
			<li>White stock, basis of white sauces.</li>
			<li>Fish stock.</li>
			<li>The various essences of poultry, game, fish, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, the complements of small sauces.</li>
			<li>The various glazes: for meat, game, and poultry.</li>
			<li>The basic sauces: Espagnole, Velouté, Béchamel, Tomato, and Hollandaise.</li>
			<li>The savoury jellies or aspics of old-fashioned cooking.</li>
		</ol>
		<p>To these kinds of stock, which, in short, represent the buttresses of the culinary edifice, must now be added the following preparations, which are, in a measure, the auxiliaries of the above:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>The roux, the cohering element in sauces.</li>
			<li>The “Mirepoix” and “Matignon” aromatic and flavouring elements.</li>
			<li>The “<em><a href="06-the-court-bouillons-and-the-marinades.xhtml#163">Court-Bouillon</a></em>” and the “<em>Blancs</em>”.</li>
			<li>The various stuffings.</li>
			<li>The <em>marinades</em>.</li>
			<li>The various garnishes for soups, for <span xml:lang="fr">relevés</span>, for entrées, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> (“Duxelle”, “Duchesse”, “Dauphine”, <em xml:lang="fr">Pâte à choux</em>, frying batters, various <em>Salpicons</em>, Profiteroles, Royales Œufs filés, Diablotins, Pastes, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>).</li>
		</ol>
		<h3 id="1" class="formula">Ordinary or White Consommé</h3>
		<table>
			<caption><h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts</h4></caption>
			<thead>
				<tr>
					<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
					<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Quantity</th>
					<th>Unit</th>
				</tr>
			</thead>
			<tbody>
				<tr>
					<th>Shin of beef</th>
					<td>3</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Lean beef</th>
					<td>3</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Fowls’ carcases</th>
					<td>1½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Carrots</th>
					<td>1</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Turnips</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Leeks</th>
					<td>¾</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Celery</th>
					<td>1</td>
					<td>Stick</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Parsnips</th>
					<td>¼</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Medium-sized onion with a clove stuck in it</th>
					<td colspan="2">1</td>
				</tr>
			</tbody>
		</table>
		<h4>Preparation</h4>
		<p>Put the meat into a stock-pot of suitable dimensions, after having previously strung it together; add the poultry carcass, five quarts of water, and one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of grey salt. Place the stock-pot on a moderate fire in such a manner that it may not boil too quickly, and remember to stir the meat from time to time. Under the influence of the heat, the water gradually reaches the interior of the meat, where, after having dissolved the liquid portions, it duly combines with them. These liquid portions contain a large proportion of albumen, and as the temperature of the water rises this substance has a tendency to coagulate. It also increases in volume, and, by virtue of its lightness, escapes from the water and accumulates on the surface in the form of scum. Carefully remove this scum as it forms, and occasionally add a little cold water before the boil is reached in order that, the latter being retarded, a complete expulsion of the scum may be effected. The clearness of the consommé largely depends upon the manner in which this skimming has been carried out. Then the vegetable garnishing is added. The scum from these is removed as in the previous case, and the edge of the stock-pot should be carefully wiped to the level of the fluid, so as to free it from the deposit which has been formed there. The stock-pot is then moved to a corner of the fire where it may continue cooking slowly for four or five hours. At the end of this time it should be taken right away from the fire, and, after half a pint of cold water has been added to its contents, it should be left to rest a few minutes with a view to allowing the grease to accumulate on the surface of the liquid, whence it must be carefully removed before the consommé is strained. This last operation is effected by means of a very fine strainer, placed on the top of a white tureen (clean and wide), which should then be placed in a draught to hasten the cooling of the consommé. The tureen should not on any account be covered, and this more particularly in summer, when rapid cooling is a precautionary measure against fermentation.</p>
		<h4>Remarks upon the Different Causes which Combine to Influence the Quality of a Consommé</h4>
		<p>It will be seen that I have not made any mention in the above formula of the meat and the vegetables which have helped to make the consommé, my reason being that it is preferable to remove them from the stock-pot only after the broth has been strained, so as not to run the risk of disturbing the latter.</p>
		<p>The quality of the meat goes a long way towards settling the quality of the consommé. In order that the latter be perfect, it is essential that the meat used should be that of comparatively old animals whose flesh is well set and rich in flavour. This is a <em xml:lang="la">sine quâ non</em>, and the lack of meat coming from old animals in England accounts for the difficulty attaching to the making of a good consommé and savoury sauces in this country. Cattle in England are killed at an age varying from three to four years at the most; the meat thus obtained has no equal for the purpose of roasts and grills, and anything approaching it is rarely met with on the Continent. But when this same meat is used for boiling or braising, it does not contain enough juice or flavour to yield a satisfactory result.</p>
		<p>This shortcoming is furthermore aggravated by a fault that many commit who are employed in the making of consommés and stock. The fault in question consists in cooking the bones simultaneously with the meat. Now to extract that gelatinous element from bone which produces the mellowness characteristic of all good consommés, it is necessary that the gelatigenous bodies should be cooked for twelve hours at least, and even after that time has elapsed they are still not entirely spent. On the Continent the quality of the meat easily compensates for this technical error, but such is certainly not the case in England, where five hours’ stewing only results in a flat and insipid consommé.</p>
		<p>I therefore believe that, in the case of either consommé or stock, the formulæ of which I shall give later, it would be advisable for the bones to stew at least twelve hours, and this only after they have been well broken up, while the quantity of water used should be so calculated as to suffice exactly for the immersion of the meat that must follow. The contents of this first stock-pot should include half of the vegetables mentioned, and the consommé thus obtained, after having been strained and cooled, will take the place of the water in the recipe, in accordance with the directions I have given above.</p>
		<h4>The Uses of White Consommé</h4>
		<p>White consommé is used in the preparation of clarified consommés, in which case it undergoes a process of clarifying, the directions for which will be given later. It also serves as the liquor for thick soups, poached fowls, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> It must be limpid, as colourless as possible, and very slightly salted, for, whatever the use may be for which it is intended, it has to undergo a process of concentration.</p>
		<h3 id="2" class="formula">The Preparation of Clarified Consommé for Clear Soups</h3>
		<h4>Quantities for making four quarts</h4>
		<p>Five quarts of <a href="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml#1">ordinary consommé</a>, one and one-half&#160;<abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of very lean beef, the white of an egg, one fowl’s carcass (roasted if possible). First, mince the beef and pound it in a mortar with the fowl’s carcass and the white of egg, adding a little cold white consommé. Put the whole into a tall, narrow, and thick-bottomed stewpan then gradually add the cold, white broth, from which all grease has been removed, that the whole may be well mixed. Then the stewpan may be put on the fire, and its contents thoroughly stirred, for fear of their burning at the bottom. When boiling-point is reached, move the stewpan to a corner of the fire, so that the soup may only simmer, for anything approaching the boil would disturb the contents. A good hour should be enough to properly finish the consommé, and any longer time on the fire would be rather prejudicial than the reverse, as it would probably impair the flavour of the preparation. Now carefully remove what little grease may have collected on the surface of the consommé, and strain the latter through muslin into another clean stewpan. It is now ready for the addition of the garnishes that are to form part of it, which I shall enumerate in due course.</p>
		<h4>Remarks upon Clarifications</h4>
		<p>For clarified consommés, even more than for the ordinary kind, it is eminently advisable that the meat should be that of old animals. Indeed, it is safe to say that one&#160;<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of meat coming from an animal of eight years will yield much better consommé than two&#160;<abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> would, coming from a fattened animal of about three or four years. The consommé will be stronger, mellower, and certainly more tasty, as the flesh of young animals has absolutely no richness of flavour.</p>
		<p>It will be seen that I do not refer to any vegetable for the clarification. If the white consommé has been well carried out, it should be able to dispense with all supplementary flavouring, and, the customary error of cooks being rather to overdo the quantity of vegetables—even to the extent of disguising the natural aroma of the consommé—I preferred to entirely abandon the idea of vegetable garnishes in clarifications, and thus avoid a common stumbling-block.</p>
		<h3 id="3" class="formula">Chicken Consommé</h3>
		<p>White chicken consommé is prepared in exactly the same way as ordinary white consommé. There need only be added to the meat, the quantity of which may be lessened, an old hen or a cock, slightly coloured on the spit or in the oven.</p>
		<p>For the clarification, the quantity of roast fowl-carcasses used may be increased, provided the latter be not too fat. The process, however, is the same as in the clarification of <a href="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml#1">ordinary consommés</a>.</p>
		<p>The colour of chicken consommé should be lighter than that of the ordinary kind—namely, a light, amber yellow, limpid and warm.</p>
		<h3 id="4" class="formula">Fish Consommé</h3>
		<p>These consommés are rarely used, for Lenten soups with a fish basis are generally thick soups, for the preparation of which the fish fumet whereof I shall give the formula later (<a href="#11">Formula&#160;№11</a>) should avail. Whenever there is no definite reason for the use of an absolutely Lenten consommé, it would be advisable to resort to one of the ordinary kind, and to finish off the same by means of a good fish essence extracted from the bones of a sole or whiting. An excellent consommé is thus obtained, more palatable and less flat than the plain fish consommé.</p>
		<p>If, however, one were obliged to make a plain fish consommé, the following procedure should be adopted:</p>
		<h4>Clarification of Fish Consommé</h4>
		<h5>Quantities for making Four Quarts</h5>
		<p>Four and one-half quarts of ordinary fish fumet having a decided taste; one-half&#160;<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of good fresh caviare, or pressed caviare.</p>
		<h5>Mode of Procedure</h5>
		<p>Pound the caviare and mix the resulting pulp with the cold fish <em>fumet</em>. Put the whole into a saucepan, place it on the open fire, and stir with a spatula until the contents reach the boil. Then move the saucepan to a corner of the fire, and let the consommé simmer gently for twenty minutes, after which strain it through muslin with great caution, and keep it well covered and in the warmth, so as to prevent the formation of a gelatinous film on the surface.</p>
		<p>Fish consommés are greatly improved by the addition of such aromatics as saffron or curry, both of which considerably add to their quality.</p>
		<h3 id="5" class="formula">Game Consommé</h3>
		<p>The necks, breasts, and shoulders of venison and of hare, old wild rabbits, old pheasants, and old partridges may be used in the production of game consommés. An ordinary consommé may likewise be made, in which half the beef can be replaced by veal, and to which may be added, while clarifying, a succulent game essence. This last method is even preferable when dealing with feathered game, but in either case it is essential that the meat used should be half-roasted beforehand, in order to strengthen the <em>fumet</em>.</p>
		<p>The formula that I give below must therefore only be looked upon as a model, necessarily alterable according to the resources at one’s disposal, the circumstances, and the end in view.</p>
		<table>
			<caption><h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts of Plain Game Consommé</h4></caption>
			<thead>
				<tr>
					<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
					<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Quantity</th>
					<th>Unit</th>
				</tr>
			</thead>
			<tbody>
				<tr>
					<th>Neck, shoulder, or breast of venison</th>
					<td>3</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Hare-trimmings</th>
					<td>1½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td>Old pheasant <em>or</em> partridges</td>
					<td colspan="2">1 <em>or</em> 2</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Sliced carrots, browned in butter</th>
					<td>4</td>
					<td><abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Mushrooms, likewise browned in butter</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Leeks</th>
					<td>1</td>
					<td>Medium sized</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Celery</th>
					<td>2</td>
					<td>sticks</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Bunch of herbs with extra thyme and bay leaves</th>
					<td>¼</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Onion, oven-browned, with 2 cloves stuck into it</th>
					<td colspan="2">1</td>
				</tr>
			</tbody>
		</table>
		<h4>Liquor</h4>
		<p>Five and one-half quarts of water.</p>
		<h4>Seasoning</h4>
		<p>One&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of salt and a few peppercorns, these to be added ten minutes previous to straining the consommé.</p>
		<h4>Time allowed for cooking</h4>
		<p>Three hours.</p>
		<h4>Mode of Procedure</h4>
		<p>Proceed in exactly the same way as for ordinary consommés, taking care only to half-roast the meat, as I pointed out above, before putting it in the stewpan.</p>
		<h3>The Clarification of Game Consommés</h3>
		<p>The constituents of the clarification of game consommés vary according to the kind of consommé desired. If it is to have a partridge flavour, one partridge should be allowed for each quart of the consommé, whereas if its flavour is to be that of the pheasant, half an old pheasant will be required per each quart of the liquid. Lastly, in the case of plain game consommés, one&#160;<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of lean venison, hare, or wild rabbit should be allowed for each quart of the required consommé.</p>
		<h4>Mode of Procedure</h4>
		<p>Whatever be the kind of game used, the latter must be thoroughly boned and the meat well pounded, together with the white of an egg per four quarts of consommé.</p>
		<p>About two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> per quart of dried mushrooms should now be added if they can be procured, while the bones and the remains or carcases of game should be browned in the oven and completely drained of all grease. The whole can now be mixed with the cold game consommé. The clarification is then put over an open fire (stirring incessantly the while), and as soon as the boil is reached the saucepan must be moved to a corner of the fire, where its contents may gently boil for three-quarters of an hour. The fat should then be removed, and the consommé strained through muslin, after which cover up until wanted.</p>
		<h3 id="6" class="formula">Special Consommés for Suppers</h3>
		<p>The consommés whose formulæ I have just given are intended more particularly for dinners. They are always finished off by some kind of garnish, which, besides lending them an additional touch of flavour, gives them their special and definite character when they are served up in the diner’s plate.</p>
		<p>But the case is otherwise with the consommés served for suppers. These, being only served in cups, either hot or cold, do not allow of any garnishing, since they are to be <em>drunk</em> at table. They must therefore be perfect in themselves, delicate, and quite clear.</p>
		<p>These special consommés are made in a similar manner to the others, though it is needful to slightly increase the quantity of meat used for the clarification, and to add to that clarification the particular flavour mentioned on the <em>menu</em>—to wit, a few stalks of celery, if the consommé is a celery one; a small quantity of curry, if the consommé is given as “<span xml:lang="fr">à l’Indienne</span>”; or a few old roast partridges if it is to be termed “<span xml:lang="fr">Consommé au <em>fumet</em> de perdreau</span>”; and so on.</p>
		<p>The means by which one may vary the aroma of consommés are legion, but it is highly important, what aroma soever be used, that the latter be not too pronounced. It ought only to lend a distinctive and, at the same time, subtle finish to the consommé, which, besides sharpening the latter, should increase its succulence.</p>
		<p>When the consommé is served cold it ought to have the qualities of an extremely light and easily-melting jelly, barely firm; but when it is too liquid, it rarely gives that sensation of perfection and succulence to the palate of the consumer which the latter expects. When too firm and too gelatinous it is positively disagreeable; therefore, if it is to be relished, it should be just right in respect of consistency.</p>
		<h3 id="7" class="formula">Brown Stock or “<span xml:lang="fr">Estouffade</span>”</h3>
		<table>
			<caption><h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts</h4></caption>
			<thead>
				<tr>
					<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
					<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Quantity</th>
					<th>Unit</th>
				</tr>
			</thead>
			<tbody>
				<tr>
					<th>Shin of beef (flesh and bone)</th>
					<td>4</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Shin of veal (flesh and bone)</th>
					<td>4</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Lean, raw ham</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Fresh pork rind, rinsed in tepid water</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Mushrooms, likewise browned in butter</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Minced carrots, browned in butter</th>
					<td>¾</td>
					<td>medium sized</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Minced onions, browned in butter</th>
					<td>¾</td>
					<td>sticks</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td><a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#0176">Faggot</a>, containing a little parsley, a stick of celery, a small sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf</td>
					<td colspan="2">1</td>
				</tr>
			</tbody>
		</table>
		<h4>Preparation</h4>
		<p>Bone and string the meat, and keep it in readiness for the morrow. Break the bones as finely as possible, and, after having besprinkled them with a little stock-fat, brown them in an oven; also stir them repeatedly. When they are slightly browned, put them in a conveniently large sauce-pan with the carrots, the onions, and the faggot. Add five quarts of cold water, and put the saucepan on an open fire to boil. As soon as the boil is reached skim carefully; wipe the edge of the saucepan put the lid half on, and allow the stock to cook gently for twelve hours; then roughly remove the fat; pass the liquid through a sieve, and let it cool.</p>
		<p>This being done, put the meat in a saucepan just large enough to hold it. Brown it a little in some stock-fat, and clear it entirely of the latter. Add half a pint of the prepared stock, cover the saucepan, and let the meat simmer on the side of the fire until the stock is almost entirely reduced. Meanwhile the meat should have been repeatedly turned, that it may be equally affected throughout. Now pour the remainder of the stock, prepared from bones, into the saucepan, bring the whole to the boil, and then move the saucepan to a corner of the fire for the boiling to continue very slowly and regularly with the lid off. As soon as the meat is well cooked the fat should be removed from the stock, and the latter should be strained or rubbed through a sieve, after which it should be put aside to be used when required.</p>
		<h4>Remarks Relative to the Making of Brown Stock</h4>
		<p>Instead of stringing the meat after having boned it, if time presses, it may be cut into large cubes before browning. In this case one hour and a half would suffice to cook it and to extract all its juice.</p>
		<p>Whether brown or white, stock should never be salted, because it is never served in its original state. It is either reduced in order to make glazes or sauces—in which case the concentration answers the purpose of seasoning—or else it is used to cook meat which must be salted before being cooked, and which, therefore, imparts the necessary salt to its surrounding liquor.</p>
		<p>Brown stock ought to be the colour of fine burnt amber, and it must be transparent. It is used in making meat-glazes after reduction, also to moisten meat for braising and to prepare brown sauces.</p>
		<h3 id="8" class="formula">Brown Game Stock</h3>
		<p>There is no difference between the game consommés and game stock, or, otherwise stated, ordinary game consommé and brown game stock are one and the same thing. The distinction lies in the ultimate use of this preparation; it is clarified, as we have shown (<a href="#5">Formula&#160;№5</a>), if it be intended for a clear soup, and it is used in its original state if it is to be used for a thick game soup, for a sauce, or for reducing.</p>
		<h3 id="9" class="formula">Brown Veal Stock</h3>
		<p>Brown veal stock requires the same quantities of shin and trimmings of veal as white veal stock (<a href="#10">Formula&#160;№10</a>). The time allowed for cooking is, however, a little shorter, and this operation may be completed within eight hours. This stock is mostly used as the liquor for poultry and poëled game, while it may also serve in the preparation of thickened veal stock. Being quite neutral in taste, it lends itself to all purposes, and readily takes up the aroma of the meat with which it may happen to be combined. It is admirably suited to the poaching of quails, and nothing can supplant it in this particular.</p>
		<h3 id="10" class="formula">White Stock, Veal and Poultry Stock</h3>
		<table>
			<caption><h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts</h4></caption>
			<thead>
				<tr>
					<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
					<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Quantity</th>
					<th>Unit</th>
				</tr>
			</thead>
			<tbody>
				<tr>
					<th>Shin of veal, or lean and fresh veal trimmings</th>
					<td>8</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Fowls’ carcases, raw if they are handy</th>
					<td>1 <em>or</em> 2</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Carrots</th>
					<td>12</td>
					<td><abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Onions stuck with a clove</th>
					<td>6</td>
					<td><abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Cold water</th>
					<td>5½</td>
					<td>quarts</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Leeks strung with a stock of celery</th>
					<td>4</td>
					<td><abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Minced onions, browned in butter</th>
					<td>¾</td>
					<td>sticks</td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<td><a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#0176">Faggot</a>, including 1&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of parsley, 1&#160;bayleaf, and a small sprig of thyme.</td>
					<td colspan="2">1</td>
				</tr>
			</tbody>
		</table>
		<h4>Preparation</h4>
		<p>Bone the shins, string the meat, break up the bones as small as possible, and put them in a stewpan with the water. Place on an open fire, allow to boil, skim carefully, and then move to a side of the fire to cook very gently for five hours. At the end of this time put the stock into another stewpan, add the meat and the vegetables, add water, if necessary, to keep the quantity of liquid at five quarts, let it boil, and allow it to cook slowly for another three hours, after which remove all grease from the stock, pass the latter through a fine strainer or a colander, and put it aside until wanted.</p>
		<h4>Remarks upon White Stock</h4>
		<p>One should contrive to make this stock as gelatinous as possible. It is therefore an indispensable measure that the bones be well broken up and cooked for at least eight hours. Veal never yields such clear stock as beef; nevertheless, the consommé obtained from veal should not be turbid. It must, on the contrary, be kept as clear and as white as possible.</p>
		<p>Poultry Stock is made by adding two old fowls to the above veal stock, and these should be put into the liquor with the meat.</p>
		<h2>Fish Stock</h2>
		<h3 id="11" class="formula">White Fish Stock</h3>
		<table>
			<caption><h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts</h4></caption>
			<thead>
				<tr>
					<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
					<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Quantity</th>
					<th>Unit</th>
				</tr>
			</thead>
			<tbody>
				<tr>
					<th>Trimmings and bones of sole or whiting</th>
					<td>4</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Sliced, blanched onions.</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td><abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>Parsley, root or stalks</th>
					<td>2</td>
					<td><abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></td>
				</tr>
				<tr>
					<th>White wine</th>
					<td>½</td>
					<td>bottle</td>
				</tr>
			</tbody>
		</table>
		<h4>Preparation</h4>
		<p>Butter the bottom of a thick, tall stewpan, put in the blanched onions and the parsley-stalks, and upon these aromatics lay the fish remains. Add the juice of a lemon, cover the stewpan, put it on the fire, and allow the fish to exude its essence, jerking the pan at intervals. Moisten, in the first place, with the white wine; then, with the lid off, reduce the liquid to about half. Now add four quarts of cold water, bring to the boil, skim, and. then leave to cook for twenty minutes, only, on a moderate fire. The time allowed is ample for the purpose of extracting the aromatic and gelatinous properties contained in the bones, and a more protracted stewing would only impair the savour of the stock.</p>
		<h4>Remarks upon White Fish Stock</h4>
		<p>The formula which I give above diverges considerably from that commonly used, for, as a rule, fish stock is diluted far too much, and is stewed for much too long a time. I have observed that fish stock may be greatly improved by rapid cooking, and it was this consideration that led me to dilute it scantily, so as to avoid prolonged reduction.</p>
		<p>It is likewise necessary to remember that in order to make perfect fish-stock, only the sole or whiting should be used. In a case of emergency, however, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, if the supply of the latter were to run short, a quarter of their weight of brill bones might be added to them. But all other kinds of fish should be avoided in the preparation.</p>
		<h3 id="12" class="formula">Fish Stock with Red Wine</h3>
		<p>This stock is comparatively rarely used, because, in practice, it is naturally obtained in the cooking of the fish itself, as, for instance, in the case of the “Matelotes”. Be this as it may, with the recent incursion of a custom which seems to demand, ever more and more, the serving of fish without bones, the following formula will be worthy of interest, as it is likely that its need will henceforth be felt with increasing urgency.</p>
		<p>Fish <em>fumet</em> with red wine may be prepared from all freshwater fish, as well as from the remains of sole, whiting, chicken-turbot, and brill. It is generally better, however, to have recourse to the bones and remains of that fish which happens to be constituting the dish—that is to say, the bones and trimmings of sole in a stock for fillet of sole, the bones and trimmings of a chicken-turbot in a <em>fumet</em> for a chicken-turbot, and so on. The preparatory formula remains the same, whatever the kind of fish used may be.</p>
		<h4>Quantities for making Four Quarts of <em>Fumet</em> with Red Wine</h4>
		<p>Four&#160;<abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of bones, heads, and trimmings of the fish to be served; three-quarters&#160;<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of minced white onions; three&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of parsley stalks, two bay leaves, four small sprigs of thyme, and four cloves of garlic; two bottles of red wine and five pints of water.</p>
		<h4>Mode of Procedure</h4>
		<p>Put all the above-mentioned ingredients in a thick and tall stewpan, boil, skim carefully, and allow to cook twenty to thirty minutes on a moderate fire; then strain the stock through a colander into a tureen, to be used when required.</p>
		<h4>Remarks upon Fish Stock with Red Wine</h4>
		<p>This stock stands reduction far better than white fish stock. Nevertheless, I urge the advisability of trying to obtain the required quantity without reduction. In its preparation, one may use some mushroom parings, as in the case of white stock, if these are handy, and they will be found to lend an agreeable flavour to the fish <em>fumet</em>.</p>
		<h3 id="13" class="formula">Various Essences</h3>
		<p>As their name implies, essences are stock which hold a large proportion of a substance’s aroma in a concentrated form. They are, in fact, ordinary stock, only less diluted, with the idea of intensifying the flavour of the treated ingredients; hence their utility is <em>nil</em> if the stock which they are intended to finish has been reasonably and judiciously treated. It is infinitely simpler ta make savoury and succulent stock in the first place than to produce a mediocre stock, and finally complete it by a specially prepared essence. The result in the first instance is better, and there is economy of time and material.</p>
		<p>The most one can do is to recommend, in certain circumstances, the use of essences extracted from particularly well-flavoured products, as, for instance, mushrooms, truffles, morels, and celery. But it would be well to remember that, nine times out of ten, it is preferable to add the product itself to the stock during the preparation of the same than to prepare essences.</p>
		<p>For this reason I do not think it necessary to dilate upon the subject of essences, the need of which should not be felt in good cooking.</p>
		<h3 id="14" class="formula">Various Glazes</h3>
		<p>The various glazes of meat, fowl, game, and fish are merely stock reduced to the point of viscosity. Their uses are legion. Occasionally they serve in decking dishes with a brilliant and unctuous coating which makes them sightly; at other times they may help to strengthen the consistence of a sauce or other culinary preparation, while again they may be used as sauces proper after they have been correctly creamed or buttered.</p>
		<p>Glazes are distinguished from essences by the fact that the latter are only prepared with the object of extracting all the flavour of the product under treatment, whereas the former are, on the contrary, constituted by the whole base of the substance itself. They therefore have not only its savour, but also its succulence and mellowness, whereby they are superior to the essences, and cooking can but be improved by substituting them for the latter. Nevertheless, many <em>chefs</em> of the old school do not permit the use of glazes in culinary preparations, or, rather, they are of opinion that each cooking operation should produce them on its own account, and thus be sufficient unto itself. Certainly, the theory is correct when neither time nor cost is limited. But nowadays the establishments are scarce where these theories may be applied, and, indeed, if one does not make an abuse of glazes, and if they be prepared with care, their use gives excellent results, while they lend themselves admirably to the very complex demands of modern customs.</p>
		<h3 id="15" class="formula">Meat Glaze</h3>
		<p>Meat glaze is made by reducing brown stock (<a href="#7">Formula&#160;№7</a>) in a large stewpan upon an open fire. As often as the stock is appreciably reduced, during ebullition, it may be transferred to smaller stewpans, taking care to strain it through muslin at each change of stewpan. The glaze may be considered sufficiently reduced when it evenly veneers a withdrawn spoon. The fire used for reducing should gradually wane as the concentration progresses, and the last phase must be effected slowly and on a moderate fire.</p>
		<p>When it is necessary to obtain a lighter and clearer glaze, the brown veal stock (<a href="#9">Formula&#160;№9</a>) should be reduced instead of the “<span xml:lang="fr">Estouffade</span>”.</p>
		<h3 id="16" class="formula">Poultry Glaze</h3>
		<p>Reduce the poultry base indicated in <a href="#10">Formula&#160;№10</a>, and proceed in exactly the same way as for meat glaze (<a href="#15">Formula&#160;№15</a>).</p>
		<h3 id="17" class="formula">Game Glaze</h3>
		<p>Use the game base (<a href="#8">Formula&#160;№8</a>), and proceed as for meat glaze (<a href="#9">Formula&#160;№9</a>).</p>
		<h3 id="18" class="formula">Fish Glaze</h3>
		<p>This glaze is used less often than the preceding ones. As it is only used to intensify the savour of sauces, it is sufficient for this purpose to prepare a white fish stock (<a href="#11">Formula&#160;№11</a>), which may be diluted with the stock already prepared, and which may be reduced according to the requirements. The name of fish <em>fumet</em> or fish essence is given to this preparation; its flavour is more delicate than that of fish glaze, which it replaces with advantage.</p>
	</body>
</html>