<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Hors-d’Œuvres</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XII <span epub:type="title">Eggs</span></h1>
		<p><span class="first-words">Of</span> all the products put into requisition by the art of cookery, not one is so fruitful of variety, so universally liked, and so complete in itself as the egg. There are very few culinary recipes that do not include eggs, either as a principal constituent or as an ingredient.</p>
		<p>The many and various egg-preparations constitute chiefly breakfast or luncheon dishes; nevertheless, at a Lenten dinner they may be served as entries with advantage, for, at a time when fish, shell-fish, and water-game are the only resources in this respect, eggs form a pleasant and welcome change.</p>
		<h3 id="395" class="formula">Eggs on the Dish</h3>
		<p>Eggs cooked in this way derive all their quality from the way in which the cooking process is conducted. They must be evenly cooked, on top and underneath, and should remain soft. An important condition of the process is that the eggs should be exceedingly fresh. After having heated sufficient butter in the dish to cover the whole of the bottom, break two eggs into it, baste the yolks with a little very hot butter, salt them slightly, and push them into the oven. As soon as the white of the eggs assumes a milky-white colour, they are cooked and should be withdrawn from the oven to be served immediately.</p>
		<p>Great attention should be bestowed upon the cooking process, a few seconds more or less than the required time being sufficient to spoil the eggs. Special care ought to be taken that they do not cook either too much or too quickly, for it should be remembered that, even were the cooking checked before the proper time, the heat of the dish does, to a certain extent, make good the deficiency.</p>
		<p>Eggs à la poêle, which, in England, are called “fried eggs”, are a variety of eggs on the dish, very often served on toast, or accompanied by sausages or fried bacon. They are cooked in an omelet-pan, trimmed neatly witli a fancy-cutter, and placed, by means of a spatula, upon the prepared toast.</p>
		<p>About one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter should be allowed for every two eggs, which number constitutes the working-base of the following recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="396" class="formula">Bercy Eggs</h3>
		<p>Put half of the butter to be used in a dish; let it melt, break the eggs, taking care not to burst the yolks; baste the latter with the rest of the butter, and season. Cook as directed that is to say, until the whites are quite done and the yolks are glossy. Garnish with a small, grilled sausage, placed between the yolks, and surround with a thread of tomato sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="397" class="formula">Eggs with Brown Butter</h3>
		<p>There are two methods:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>Cook the eggs in a dish as usual, and then cover them with one-quarter&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of brown butter and a few drops of vinegar, which should be added after the butter.</li>
			<li>Put one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter into a small omelet-pan, and cook it until it is almost black. Break the eggs into it, season, cook, tilt them gently on to a dish, and besprinkle with a few drops of vinegar, with which the omelet-pan has been rinsed.</li>
		</ol>
		<h3 id="398" class="formula">Eggs Chasseur</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs as per <a href="#395">Formula&#160;№395</a>. This done, garnish on either side with a tablespoonful of sliced chicken’s liver, rapidly sautéd and cohered with a little <a href="EPUB/03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#33">Chasseur sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="399" class="formula">Devilled Eggs</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs in the omelet-pan; turn them, after the manner of pancakes, taking care lest they break. Slide them gently into a dish, and besprinkle them with brown butter and a few drops of vinegar with which the omelet-pan has been rinsed.</p>
		<h3 id="400" class="formula">Eggs à la Florentine</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of a dish with spinach-leaves stewed in butter; sprinkle thereon two pinches of grated cheese; break the eggs upon this garnish, and cover them with two tablespoonfuls of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a>. Place in a fierce oven, so that the cooking and glazing of the eggs may be effected simultaneously.</p>
		<h3 id="401" class="formula">Eggs au Gratin</h3>
		<p>Put a tablespoonful of very hot <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a> into a dish. Break the eggs into it, cover them with Mornay sauce, sprinkle with grated cheese mixed with fine raspings, and cook in a fierce oven, in order that the eggs and the gratin may be done at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="402" class="formula">Isoline Eggs</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs according to <a href="#395">Formula&#160;№395</a>. Place between them, and all round the dish, some small, halved tomatoes à la Provençal. Put in the centre of each halved tomato a fine chicken’s liver <em>sautéd</em> with Madeira.</p>
		<h3 id="403" class="formula">Jockey Club Eggs</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs in an omelet-pan; tilt them gently on to a dish, and trim them with a round fancy-cutter. Place each egg upon a round, thin piece of toast, and then cover them with foie-gras purée. Arrange them in the form of a crown, on a dish, and pour into the middle a garnish of calf’s kidneys cut into dice and <em>sautéd</em>, and truffles similarly cut, the latter being cohered by means of some dense <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#23">half glaze</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="404" class="formula">Lully Eggs</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs in an omelet-pan, and cut them with a round fancy-cutter. Place each egg on a slice of raw ham, cut to the same shape as the former, and fried in butter. Then place the egg and ham on toast similarly shaped and of the same size. Arrange the eggs in a circle round the dish, and garnish the middle of it with macaroni combined with <em>concassed</em> tomatoes stewed in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="405" class="formula">Meyerbeer Eggs</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs as in <a href="#395">Formula&#160;№395</a>. Place a small, grilled sheep’s or lamb’s kidney between each yolk, and surround with a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#47">Périgueux sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="406" class="formula">Mirabeau Eggs</h3>
		<p>Substitute for ordinary butter, <a href="11-hors-doeuvres.xhtml#281">anchovy butter</a>. Break the eggs and cook them. Surround each yolk with anchovy fillets, and garnish each of these with a spray of parboiled tarragon leaves. Place a large olive stuffed with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#148">tarragon butter</a> on either side of the yolks.</p>
		<h3 id="407" class="formula">Omer-Pacha Eggs</h3>
		<p>Garnish a dish with a large tablespoonful of minced onions cooked in butter and unbrowned. Break the eggs over the garnish, sprinkle them with a small tablespoonful of dry, grated Parmesan cheese, and cook in a sufficiently fierce oven for a slight <em>gratin</em> to form as soon as the eggs are done.</p>
		<h3 id="408" class="formula">Parmentier Eggs</h3>
		<p>Bake some fine Dutch potatoes in the oven. Open them, from above, with an oval fancy-cutter; remove the pulp from the inside, rub it through a sieve, and make a smooth purée of it. Half-fill the potato-shells with this purée, break an egg into each, besprinkle with cream, and cook in the oven. Replace the part of the baked shell removed in the first instance, and dish up on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="409" class="formula">Eggs à la Portugaise</h3>
		<p>Put a tablespoonful of tomato <em>fondue</em> into a dish. Break the eggs upon this, season, and cook. Between the eggs and at each end of the dish put a little heap of tomato <em>fondue</em>, and on each of the heaps drop a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="410" class="formula">Eggs à la Reine</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs in an omelet-pan, and trim them with a round fancy-cutter. Put each egg upon a small disc of Duchesse potatoes, of the same size as the egg, previously browned in the oven. Arrange the eggs in a circle round the dish; in the middle put a chicken mincemeat, and surround with a border of Suprème sauce.</p>
		<h2>Poached and Soft-boiled Eggs</h2>
		<p>All the recipes given hereafter apply equally to poached and soft-boiled eggs, wherefore I shall only mention “poached” in the titles, leaving soft-boiled to be understood.</p>
		<h3 id="411" class="formula">Procedure for Poached Eggs</h3>
		<p>The one and only essential condition in this case is the use of perfectly fresh eggs, for it is quite impossible to expect an even poaching if this condition is not fulfilled.</p>
		<ol>
			<li>Have ready a sauté-pan containing boiling salted water (one-third&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of salt per quart of water), slightly acidulated with vinegar. Break the eggs over that part of the water which is actually boiling.</li>
			<li>In order that the eggs may poach freely, do not put more than eight or ten at a time into the same sauté-pan; better even poach them six at a time, for then the poaching will be effected more equally.</li>
			<li>As soon as the eggs are in the water, let the latter simmer. The egg is poached when the white has enveloped the yolk, reassuming, as it were, the form of a raw egg, and when it may be touched without breaking. The usual time allowed for poaching is three&#160;minutes.</li>
			<li>Withdraw the eggs by means of a slice; dip them into cold water, trim their whites, and put them back into moderately warm water until ready to serve.</li>
		</ol>
		<h3 id="412" class="formula">The Cooking of Soft-boiled Eggs</h3>
		<p>These ought to be very fresh, as in the case of poached eggs. With a view to equalising their cooking, it is a good plan to put them in a colander perforated with large holes, whereby they may be plunged into and withdrawn from the water together. Keep the water boiling; plunge the eggs therein as directed; leave them to cook for six&#160;minutes from the time the water has regained the boiling-point; drain, steep for a moment in a bowl of cold water, and shell the eggs carefully. Keep them in moderately-salted hot water until ready to serve.</p>
		<h3 id="413" class="formula">The Dishing of Poached and Soft-Boiled Eggs</h3>
		<p>There are many ways of doing this, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videlicet">viz.</abbr>:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>On rusks of bread-crumb, slightly hollowed, ornamented according to taste (<abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, indented by means of the point of a small knife) and fried in clarified butter. Their shape is oval for poached eggs, and round for soft-boiled eggs, the latter being generally dished upright.</li>
			<li>On little, oval <em>feuilletés</em> for poached eggs, on <em>feuilletés</em> in the shape of indented crowns, or in small patties for soft-boiled eggs.</li>
			<li>In borders of forcemeat or other preparations, the kind of which is indicated by the name of the particular egg-preparation. These borders are laid on the dish by means of a piping-bag or by hand; they are either oval or round, plain or indented, poached or oven-browned, according to the nature of the preparation used.</li>
			<li>On tartlet-crusts which are garnished so as to be in keeping with the method of dressing the eggs.</li>
		</ol>
		<h4>Remarks</h4>
		<ol>
			<li>Poached or soft-boiled eggs, when dished upon fried rusks, <em>feuilletés</em>, or tartlets, should, before being placed on the latter, be covered with sauce. Also before being treated with sauce they should be well drained.</li>
			<li>Having given the general outlines of the procedure, I shall now pass on to the particular recipes, stating them briefly, and reminding the reader that all of them apply equally to poached and soft-boiled eggs. Thus “<a href="#">Poached Eggs Mireille</a>” stands for “Poached or Soft-boiled Eggs Mireille”.</li>
		</ol>
		<h3 id="414" class="formula">Poached Eggs Argenteuil</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of some tartlet-crusts with asparagus cut into pieces and cooked, and six green asparagus-heads, about one and one-half inches in length, arranged like a star. Place an egg, coated with cream sauce mixed with half its volume of asparagus purée, upon each tartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="415" class="formula">Poached Eggs à l’Aurore</h3>
		<p>Coat the eggs with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#60">Aurora sauce</a>, and dish them on oval <em>feuilletés</em> if poached, or upright on <em>feuilletés</em> in the shape of rings if soft-boiled.</p>
		<h3 id="416" class="formula">Poached Eggs en Berceau</h3>
		<p>Bake some fine Dutch potatoes in the oven. Cut each potato in half, lengthwise, with the point of a small knife, and remove the pulp. Emptied in this way, the halved potatoes resemble little cradles. Coat the interior of each cradle with a fine chicken mincemeat mixed with cream, and place an egg coated with Aurora sauce in each.</p>
		<h3 id="417" class="formula">Poached Eggs à la Bohémienne</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of some tartlet-crusts with a salpicon of foie-gras and truffles cohered with a few tablespoonfuls of the following sauce:—For six eggs, dissolve one teaspoonful of white-meat glaze; add thereto half a teaspoonful of truffle essence, and finish with a lump of butter about the size of a pigeon’s egg. Take enough of this sauce to effect the cohering of the <em>salpicon</em>; coat the eggs with Hungarian sauce, and place one upon each garnished tartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="418" class="formula">Poached Eggs Boïeldieu</h3>
		<p>Garnish the tartlets with a white-chicken-meat, foie-gras, and truffle <em>salpicon</em> cohered with <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#26">poultry velouté</a>. Coat the eggs with a reduced and thickened poultry gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="419" class="formula">Poached Eggs à la Bruxelloise</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with braised, minced endives thickened with cream. Place an egg, coated with cream sauce, upon each; sprinkle moderately with <em>biscotte</em> raspings, and set to glaze quickly in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="420" class="formula">Poached Eggs à la Clamart</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with small, green peas, cooked à la française (<a href="#">Formula&#160;№2193</a>), and mixed with finely <em>ciseled</em> lettuce which should have cooked with them. Place an egg, coated with cream sauce which has been finished with fresh-pea butter, upon each.</p>
		<h3 id="421" class="formula">Poached Eggs Colbert</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with a <em>macédoine</em> cohered with <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel</a>. Place a plainly-poached egg upon each, and send <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#141">Colbert butter</a>, separately, to the table with the tartlets.</p>
		<h3 id="422" class="formula">Poached Eggs à la Comtesse</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with white asparagus purée. Place an egg coated with Allemande sauce upon each, and sprinkle with very black chopped truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="423" class="formula">Poached Eggs Grand Duc</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<p>There are two modes of procedure:</p>
			<ol>
				<li>Place the eggs on fried rusks, with a nice slice of truffle on each; arrange them in a circle round the dish, coat with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a>, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. On withdrawing the dish from the oven, put in the centre a garnish composed of asparagus-heads and a small faggot of the latter, very green and cooked.</li>
				<li>Prepare a <em>croustade</em>, moulded in a flawn ring, the size of which must be in proportion to the number of eggs to be served. Arrange the eggs in a circle in the <em>croustade</em>, coat them with Mornay sauce, and set to glaze in a fierce oven. On withdrawing the <em>croustade</em> from the oven, garnish its centre with asparagus-heads and a small faggot as above.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<h3 id="424" class="formula">Poached Eggs Maintenon</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#104">Soubise à la Béchamel</a>, slightly thickened by reduction. Coat the eggs with Mornay sauce, besprinkle with grated cheese, and place them in the crusts by means of a slice.</p>
		<p>Set to glaze in a fierce oven, and, on withdrawing the dish from the oven, surround the crusts with a thread of melted meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="425" class="formula">Poached Eggs Masséna</h3>
		<p>Heat some medium-sized artichoke-bottoms in butter. Slightly hollow them, if necessary, and garnish each with a tablespoonful of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise sauce</a>. Place an egg, coated with <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#29">tomato sauce</a>, upon each artichoke-bottom; then place a slice of poached marrow upon each egg, and a little chopped parsley upon each slice of marrow.</p>
		<h3 id="426" class="formula">Poached Eggs Mireille</h3>
		<p>Slightly press some saffroned pilaff rice in buttered tartlet moulds.</p>
		<p>Prepare as many pieces of toast of the same size as the tartlets, and fry them in oil. Place an egg, coated with cream sauce, finished with saffron, upon each. Turn the rice-tartlets out of the moulds, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, alternating them with the eggs on toast; put a coffee-spoonful of <em>concassed</em> tomatoes, stewed in butter and kept rather thick, upon each rice-tartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="427" class="formula">Poached Eggs Mornay</h3>
		<p>Coat the eggs with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a>, and besprinkle with grated Gruyère and Parmesan cheese mixed with fine raspings. Then, by means of a slice, carefully transfer the eggs to pieces of toast fried in oil. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, sprinkle each egg with a few drops of melted butter, and set to glaze quickly in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="428" class="formula">Poached Eggs d’Orsay</h3>
		<p>Place the eggs upon toast fried in butter. Arrange them in a circle on a dish, and coat them with Châteaubriand sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="429" class="formula">Poached Eggs Rossini</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts, each with a slice of foie gras (raw if possible) seasoned, dredged with flour, and fried in butter. Place an egg, coated with thickened veal gravy with Madeira, on each tartlet, and complete by means of a large slice of very black truffle on each egg.</p>
		<h3 id="430" class="formula">Poached Eggs Sévigné</h3>
		<p>Prepare some thin rusks; fry them in clarified butter, and stuff them with a mince of braised lettuce. Place an egg on each stuffed rusk; coat with <a href="#">velouté</a> mixed with poultry essence arrange in a circle on a dish, and complete by means of a ring of very black truffle on each egg.</p>
		<h3 id="431" class="formula">Poached Eggs Victoria</h3>
		<p>Garnish some tartlet-crusts with a <em>salpicon</em> made from three&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of spiny-lobster meat and one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of truffles, cohered with three tablespoonfuls of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#82">Diplomate sauce</a>. Place an egg, coated with Diplomate sauce, on each tartlet. Dish, and set to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="432" class="formula">Poached Eggs with Red Wine</h3>
		<p>These eggs may either be poached with red wine, or in the ordinary way.</p>
		<p>In the first case, the wine used for poaching may serve to prepare the red wine or <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#32">Bordelaise sauce (Formula&#160;№32)</a>. In either case, the eggs are dished on oval rusks, slightly hollowed and fried in butter; they are coated with the sauce, after having been dished, and they are quickly glazed.</p>
		<h3 id="433" class="formula">Hard-boiled Eggs</h3>
		<p>Boiling eggs hard may seem an insignificant matter, but, like the other modes of procedure, it is, in reality, of some importance, and should be effected in a given period of time. If, for a special purpose, they have to be just done, it is pointless and even harmful to boil them beyond a certain time-limit, seeing that any excess in the boiling only makes them tough, and the whites particularly so, owing to their albuminous nature. In order to boil eggs uniformly, they should be put into a colander with large holes, whereby they may be plunged at the same moment of time into the boiling water. From the time the water regains the boiling point, eight minutes should be allowed in the case of medium-sized eggs, and ten minutes in the case of larger ones; but these times should never be exceeded. As soon as they are done drain the eggs and dip them in cold water, and then shell them carefully.</p>
		<h3 id="434" class="formula">Hard-boiled Eggs Carème</h3>
		<p>Have ready beforehand a <a href="#">timbale crust (Formula&#160;№2395)</a>, somewhat shallow.</p>
		<p>For six hard-boiled eggs, slice four artichoke-bottoms of medium size, and stew them in butter; cut some truffles into slices, allowing four slices to each egg, and cut up the eggs into discs about one-half inch thick. Prepare also in advance one-half&#160;pint of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#95">Nantua sauce</a>.</p>
		<p>Garnish the crust with alternate layers of sliced artichoke-bottoms, egg-discs, and sliced truffles. Finish with a coating of sauce and a ring of sliced truffles.</p>
		<p>Dish up the crust on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="435" class="formula">Hard-boiled Eggs Chimay</h3>
		<p>Cut the eggs, lengthwise, in two. Remove the yolks, pound them into a paste, and add thereto an equal quantity of dry <a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-releves-and-entrees.xhtml#223">Duxelle (Formula&#160;№223)</a>. Fill the empty whites with the preparation; place them on a buttered <em>gratin</em>-dish; cover them with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a>; besprinkle with grated cheese; pour a few drops of melted butter upon the sauce, and set to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="436" class="formula">Hard-boiled Eggs in Croquettes</h3>
		<p>Cut the eggs into small dice (white and yolks). Per six&#160;eggs add five&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of cooked mushrooms and one&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of truffles, cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Thicken the whole with one-quarter pint of reduced <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel</a>, and spread on a plate to cool.</p>
		<p>When cold, divide the preparation into portions weighing about two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr>; roll these portions into balls on a floured mixing-board, and then shape them like eggs. Dip them into an <a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#174"><em>anglaise</em> (Formula&#160;№174)</a>, taking care to cover them well with it, and then roll them in fine and fresh bread-crumbs, letting this operation avail for finishing off the shape. Put them into hot fat seven or eight minutes before dishing up; drain, salt moderately, place on a napkin, with a centre garnish of very green, fried parsley, and send a cream sauce to the table with them.</p>
		<h3 id="437" class="formula">Hard-boiled Eggs in Rissoles</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation of eggs, as for the croquettes, using a little more sauce. Roll some puff-paste trimmings to a thickness of one-quarter inch, and stamp it with a round indented cutter two and one-half&#160;inches in diameter.</p>
		<p>Place a small tablespoonful of the preparation in the middle of each piece of paste; moisten slightly all round, and make the rissoles by folding the outside edges of the paste over one another to look like a closed purse, taking care to press them well together so as to join them, thus completely enclosing the preparation. Treat them <em>à l’anglaise</em>; put them into hot fat eight&#160;minutes before serving, and dish up on a napkin, with a centre garnish of parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="438" class="formula">Eggs à la Tripe</h3>
		<p>For six&#160;eggs, finely mince two onions, and stew them in butter, without letting them acquire any colour. Add thereto one-half&#160;pint of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel sauce</a>, and set to cook gently for ten minutes. A few minutes before serving add the eggs, cut into large slices, to the sauce.</p>
		<p>Dish up in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="439" class="formula">Eggs à la Tripe, Bourgeoise</h3>
		<p>For six&#160;eggs chop up two large onions and stew them in butter without colouration. Sprinkle them with one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of flour, moisten with one&#160;pint of boiling milk, and season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Set to cook, gently, for twenty&#160;minutes; rub through a fine sieve or through tammy, and transfer the preparation to a saucepan, and heat it well. Dish up the eggs, which should be quartered, in a timbale, and cover them with the preparation of onions, very hot.</p>
		<h3 id="440" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte</h3>
		<p>The poaching of eggs <em>en cocotte</em> is done in the <em>bain-marie</em>.</p>
		<p><em>Cocottes</em> for eggs, which may be replaced by little china or plaited cases, are a kind of small saucepan in earthenware, in porcelain, or in silver, provided with a little handle. The time generally allowed for the cooking or poaching of eggs in this way is ten minutes, but this time is subject to variations either way. In order to accelerate the process I should advise the warming of the <em>cocottes</em> before the insertion of the eggs.</p>
		<h4>Mode of Procedure</h4>
		<p>Having garnished the <em>cocottes</em> and broken the eggs into them, as directed in the recipes given hereafter, set them in a sauté-pan and pour therein enough boiling water to reach within one-half&#160;inch of the brims of the <em>cocottes</em>. Place in the oven and cover, just leaving sufficient opening for the steam to escape.</p>
		<p>The eggs are done when the whites are almost set and the yolks are glossy. After having properly wiped the <em>cocottes</em>, dish them on a napkin or on a fancy dish-paper.</p>
		<h3 id="441" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte au Chambertin</h3>
		<p>Prepare a red-wine sauce au Chambertin. Fill the <em>cocottes</em>, one-third full, with this sauce. Set to boil on a corner of the stove; break the eggs into the boiling sauce, season with a grain of salt, and put the <em>cocottes</em>, one by one, into a sauté-pan containing the necessary quantity of boiling water.</p>
		<p>Poach as directed, and set to glaze quickly at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="442" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte with Cream</h3>
		<p>This preparation constitutes the radical type of this series of eggs, and, for a long time, was the only one in use. Heat the <em>cocottes</em> beforehand; pour a tablespoonful of boiling cream into each, followed by an egg, broken; season, and add two little lumps of butter, the size of peas. Place the <em>cocottes</em> in a <em>bain-marie</em>, and poach as before.</p>
		<h3 id="443" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte à la Jeannette</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom and the sides of the <em>cocottes</em> with a thickness of one-third inch of chicken-forcemeat with cream, mixed with a fifth of its volume of foie gras. Break the egg over the middle, season, and poach in the usual way. When about to serve, surround the eggs with a thread of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#26">poultry velouté</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="444" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte with Gravy</h3>
		<p>Break the eggs into buttered <em>cocottes</em>. Season, poach, and, when about to serve, surround the yolks with a thread of reduced veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="445" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte à la Lorraine</h3>
		<p>Put a teaspoonful of breast of pork, cut into dice and fried, into each <em>cocotte</em>, also three thin slices of Gruyère cheese and one tablespoonful of boiling cream. Break the eggs, season, and poach in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="446" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte à la Maraichère</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom and sides of the <em>cocottes</em> with cooked spinach, chopped and pressed, and sorrel and lettuce leaves, both of which should be stewed in butter. Break the eggs, season, poach in the usual way, and, when about to send the eggs to the table, drop a fine chervil <em>pluche</em> on each yolk.</p>
		<h3 id="447" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte with Morels</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom and sides of the cocottes with minced morels fried in butter and thickened with a little reduced half-glaze. Break the eggs, season, poach, and surround the yolks with a thread of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#23">half glaze</a> when dishing up.</p>
		<h3 id="448" class="formula">Eggs en Cocotte à la Soubise</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom and sides of the <em>cocottes</em> with a coating of thick <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#105">Soubise purée</a>. Break the eggs, season, and poach. When dishing up, surround the yolks with a thread of melted meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="449" class="formula">Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>These form a very ornamental dish, but the time required to prepare them being comparatively long, poached, soft-boiled, and other kinds of eggs are generally preferred in their stead. They are made in variously shaped moulds, ornamented according to the nature of the preparation, and the eggs are broken into them direct, or they may be inserted in the form of scrambled eggs, together with raw eggs poached in a <em>bain-marie</em>.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the mode of preparation, the moulds should always be liberally buttered. The usual time allowed for the poaching of the eggs in moulds is from ten to twelve minutes, but when withdrawn from the <em>bain-marie</em> it is well to let the moulds stand awhile with the view of promoting a settling of their contents, which action facilitates the ultimate turning out of the latter.</p>
		<p>Empty the moulds on small pieces of toast or tartlets, and arrange these in a circle round the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="450" class="formula">Moulded Eggs à la Carignan</h3>
		<p>Butter some <em>Madeleine-moulds</em>, shaped like elongated shells, and garnish them with a thin coating of chicken-stuffing or <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#147">crayfish butter</a>. Break the eggs in the middle of the forcemeat; season, place carefully in a <em>bain-marie</em>, and poach, with cover on, in the oven, leaving a small opening for the escape of the generated vapour. Empty the moulds on toast cut to the same shape as the moulds and fried in butter; arrange them on the dish, and coat with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="451" class="formula">Moulded Eggs à la Duchesse</h3>
		<p>Butter some baba-moulds; garnish the bottom of each with a large slice of truffle; break an egg into each, and poach in the <em>bain-marie</em>. Turn out the moulds on to little fluted <em>galettes</em> made from Duchesse potatoes and coloured in the oven after having been <em>gilded</em>.</p>
		<p>Dish up in the form of a crown, and coat with a thickened veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="452" class="formula">Galli-Marié, Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>For four people:</p>
		<ol>
			<li>Prepare five&#160;scrambled eggs, keeping them very soft; add thereto three raw, beaten eggs and one teaspoonful of capsicum, cut into dice. Mould this preparation in four little shallow <em>cassolettes</em>, well buttered, and poach in the <em>bain-marie</em>.</li>
			<li>Have ready and hot as many cooked artichoke-bottoms as there are <em>cassolettes</em>; the former should have had their edges fluted. Have also ready a <a href="#">“Rice à la Grecque” (Formula&#160;№2253)</a>.</li>
			<li>Garnish the artichoke-bottoms with the rice; turn out the <em>cassolettes</em> upon the latter; arrange on a dish, and cover with highly-seasoned and buttered <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel sauce</a>. Put the dish in a fierce oven, so as to glaze quickly, and serve immediately.</li>
		</ol>
		<h3 id="453" class="formula">Moulded Eggs à la Mortemart</h3>
		<p>Scramble five&#160;eggs, keeping them soft, and add thereto three&#160;raw, beaten eggs. Butter some shallow, timbale moulds; garnish their bottoms with a fine slice of truffle, and fill them with the preparation of eggs. Poach in a <em>bain-marie</em>.</p>
		<p>Turn out each mould on a tartlet-crust, garnished with <a href="#">mushroom purée à la crême (Formula&#160;№2079)</a>, and arrange in a circle on a round dish. Send a sauceboat containing some melted and buttered meat-glaze to the table with the eggs.</p>
		<h3 id="454" class="formula">Neapolitan Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation consisting of scrambled eggs and Parmesan cheese, keeping it very soft; add thereto, per five&#160;scrambled eggs, two&#160;raw eggs. Fill some little, well-buttered brioche-moulds with this preparation, and poach in the <em>bain-marie</em>. As soon as their contents are properly set, turn out the moulds on to a buttered <em>gratin</em> dish, besprinkle with grated Parmesan cheese, and coat the eggs with reduced and buttered <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#23">half glaze</a>, well saturated with tomato.</p>
		<h3 id="455" class="formula">Moulded Eggs Palermitaine</h3>
		<p>Butter some <em>baba-moulds</em>; garnish the bottoms with a slice of truffle, and besprinkle the sides with very red, chopped tongue. Put the moulds in ice for a while, in order that the tongue may set in the butter. Break an egg into each mould, season, and poach in the <em>bain-marie</em>. Turn out the moulds on tartlet-crusts garnished with <a href="#">macaroni with cream</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="456" class="formula">Polignac Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>Butter some <em>baba-moulds</em>, and garnish the bottoms with a slice of truffle. Break an egg into each; season, and poach in a <em>bain-marie</em>.</p>
		<p>Turn out the moulds upon little round pieces of toast; arrange them in a circle on a dish, and coat the eggs with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#150">Maître d’Hôtel butter</a>, the latter being dissolved and mixed with three&#160;tablespoonfuls of melted meat-glaze per every one-quarter&#160;<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of its weight.</p>
		<h3 id="457" class="formula">Princess Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>Butter some narrow and deep <em>dariole-moulds</em>; garnish their bottoms with a slice of very black truffle, and their sides with a very thin coating of chicken forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Make a preparation of scrambled eggs, asparagus-heads, and truffles cut into dice, keeping them very soft, and add thereto raw, beaten eggs in the proportion of one raw egg to every four scrambled.</p>
		<p>Fill the moulds, two-thirds full, with this preparation; cover the eggs with a coating of forcemeat, and poach in a <em>bain-marie</em> for twelve&#160;minutes.</p>
		<p>Turn out the moulds upon little, round pieces of toast; set these in a circle on a dish, and surround them with a thread of clear <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#26">poultry velouté</a>. Or the velouté may be sent to the table separately, in a sauceboat.</p>
		<h3 id="458" class="formula">Printanier Moulded Eggs</h3>
		<p>Butter some hexagonal moulds, and garnish them. <em>Chartreuse-fashion</em>, with cut-up, cooked vegetables, varying the shades. Break an egg into each mould; season, and poach in a <em>bain-marie</em>. Turn out the moulds upon little, round pieces of toast; arrange these in a circle on a dish, and pour in their midst a cream sauce finished by means of a <em>Printanier</em> butter with herbs, in the proportion of one&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter to one-quarter pint of sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="459" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs</h3>
		<p>This dish is undoubtedly the finest of all egg-preparations, provided the eggs be not over-cooked, and they be kept soft and creamy.</p>
		<p>Scrambled eggs are mostly served in silver timbales, but, in certain cases, they may also be dished in special little <em>croustades</em>, in little receptacles made from hollowed brioches, or in tartlet-crusts. Formerly, it was customary to garnish scrambled eggs served in a silver timbale with small, variously-shaped pieces of toast, or with small scraps of puff-paste, cooked without colouration, and shaped like crescents, lozenges, rings, <em>palmettes</em>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>. This method has something to recommend it, and may always be adopted. In old cookery, scrambled eggs were sanctioned only when cooked in a <em>bain-marie</em>. This measure certainly ensured their being properly cooked, but it considerably lengthened the procedure. The latter may therefore be shortened by cooking the eggs in the usual way, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, in a utensil in direct contact with the fire; but in this case the heat must be moderate, in order that, the process of cooking being progressive and gradual, perfect homogeneity of the particles of the eggs (effecting the smoothness of the preparation) may result.</p>
		<h3 id="460" class="formula">Method of Scrambling Eggs</h3>
		<p>For six&#160;eggs, slightly heat one&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter in a thick-bottomed sauté-pan. Add the six&#160;eggs, beaten moderately, together with a large pinch of salt and a little pepper; place the pan on a moderate fire, and stir constantly with a wooden spoon, taking care to avoid anything in the way of sudden, fierce heat, which, by instantaneously solidifying the egg-molecules, would cause lumps to form in the mass—which, above all, should be guarded against.</p>
		<p>When, by cooking, the eggs have acquired the proper consistence, and are still smooth and creamy, take the sauté-pan off the fire, and finish the preparation by means of one and one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter (divided into small quantities) and three tablespoonfuls of cream. Only whisk the eggs to be scrambled when absolutely necessary.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Having given the mode of procedure, which is unalterable for scrambled eggs, I shall now pass on, in the following recipes, to the various garnishes suited to this kind of dish. The quantities I give are those required for six&#160; scrambled eggs.</p>
		<h3 id="461" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs à la Bohemienne</h3>
		<p>Take one cottage brioche for every two eggs. Remove the tops of the brioches, and the crumb from the remaining portions, so as to form cases of these. Add one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of foie gras to the scrambled eggs, and half as much truffles, cut into dice, for every two&#160;eggs. Fill the emptied brioches with this preparation, and place a slice of truffle coated with meat-glaze upon each.</p>
		<h3 id="462" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Mushrooms</h3>
		<p>Add to the scrambled eggs one oz. of cooked mushrooms cut into dice, or raw mushrooms, minced and sautéd in butter, for every two&#160;eggs.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale; put a fine, cooked, and grooved mushroom in the middle, and surround with a crown of sliced mushrooms, also cooked.</p>
		<h3 id="463" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Chasseur</h3>
		<p>Dish the scrambled eggs in a timbale. Hollow out the middle, and place therein a garnish of one fine chicken’s liver, <em>sautéd</em>, per every two&#160; eggs. Sprinkle a pinch of chervil and tarragon on the garnish, and surround with a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#33">chasseur sauce (Formula&#160;№33)</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="464" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Chatillon</h3>
		<p>Dish the eggs in a timbale, and place a garnish of mushrooms in the centre. The mushrooms should first be minced raw, and then <em>sautéd</em> in butter. Sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley on the garnish, and surround with a thread of melted meat-glaze. Border the whole, close to the sides of the timbale, with small crescents of puff-paste, baked pale.</p>
		<h3 id="465" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Shrimps</h3>
		<p>Dish the scrambled eggs in a silver timbale. Place a little heap of shrimps’ tails bound with a few tablespoonfuls of shrimp sauce in the middle, and surround with a thread of the same sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="466" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Herbs</h3>
		<p>Add to the scrambled eggs a tablespoonful of parsley, chervil <em>pluches</em>, chives, and tarragon leaves in equal quantities and chopped.</p>
		<h3 id="467" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Cheese</h3>
		<p>Break the eggs, beat them, season, and add thereto, for every&#160;two eggs, one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of fresh grated Gruyère cheese, and as much grated Parmesan. Cook the eggs in the usual way on a very moderate fire, in order to keep them creamy.</p>
		<h3 id="468" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs Grand-Mère</h3>
		<p>Add to the scrambled eggs a tablespoonful of little crusts, cut into dice, fried in clarified butter, and prepared in time to be inserted into the eggs very hot. Dish in a timbale with a pinch of chopped parsley in the middle.</p>
		<h3 id="469" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs Georgette</h3>
		<p>Bake three&#160;fine Dutch potatoes, or six&#160;smaller ones, in the oven. Open them by means of an incision on their tops; withdraw the pulp from the interior with the handle of a spoon, and keep the remaining shells hot. Prepare the scrambled eggs in the usual way, and finish them away from the fire with one and one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of crayfish butter, and eight&#160;or ten&#160;shelled crayfish tails. Garnish the potato shells with this preparation, and dish up on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="470" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs for Hot Luncheon Hors-d’Œuvre</h3>
		<p>I only give one recipe of this kind, but the series may be extended at will without involving much deep research, since all that is needed for the purpose of variety is the modification of the garnish and a change in the <em>soufflé</em> preparation. The mode of procedure remains unalterable. Prepare the scrambled eggs, and garnish them as fancy may suggest. Also make a <a href="#">“Soufflé with Parmesan Cheese” (Formula&#160;№2295a)</a>.</p>
		<p>Put the scrambled eggs into a large tartlet-crust, cook without colouration, filling them only two-thirds full. Cover with the <em>soufflé</em> preparation, taking care to make it project in a mound above the tartlets; place these on a tray, poach quickly in a hot oven, and glaze at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="471" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Morels</h3>
		<p>Add to the scrambled eggs some minced morels, <em>sautéd</em> in butter and seasoned. Dish in timbales, and place a fine, cooked morel in the centre of each.</p>
		<h3 id="472" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Mousserons</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for <a href="#471">Formula&#160;№471</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="473" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Orloff</h3>
		<p>Break the eggs, beat them, and add thereto a little fresh, thick cream. Cook them in the usual way, and add three crayfishes’ tails per every two&#160;eggs. Dish in little porcelain cases, place a fine slice of truffle in each of the cases, and arrange these upon a napkin lying on a dish.</p>
		<h3 id="474" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, à la Piémontaise</h3>
		<p>Add to the scrambled eggs, per every two&#160;of the latter, one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of grated Parmesan cheese and a coffee-spoonful of raw, grated. Piedmont truffles. Dish in a timbale, and garnish with a fine crown of sliced truffles of the same kind as the above.</p>
		<h3 id="475" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, à la Portugaise</h3>
		<p>Dish the eggs in a timbale, and place, in the middle, some fine, <em>concassed</em> tomatoes, seasoned and <em>sautéd</em> in butter. Sprinkle a pinch of <em>concassed</em> parsley on the tomatoes, and surround with a thread of meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="476" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Princess Mary</h3>
		<p>Prepare some small timbales in <em>dariole-mould</em>s from puff-paste scraps, and bake them without colouration; also some little covers of puff-paste, stamped out with an indented fancy-cutter, two&#160;inches in diameter. Set the covers on a tray, <em>gild</em> them slightly, place on each a scrap of indented paste, and leave this uncoloured. Bake the timbales and the covers in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Make a preparation of scrambled eggs and Parmesan cheese add to this, away from the fire, two&#160;tablespoonfuls of reduced velouté with truffle essence and truffles cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Garnish the timbales, put a cover on each, and dish up on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="477" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Rachel</h3>
		<p>Add some truffles, cut into dice, and some asparagus-heads to the scrambled eggs. Dish on a timbale; put a fine little faggot of asparagus-heads in the middle, and surround with a crown of sliced truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="478" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Reine Margot</h3>
		<p>Prepare the scrambled eggs in the usual way, and finish them with the necessary quantity of almond butter. Place this preparation in small tartlet-crusts, baked without colouration, and surround the tartlets with a thread of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel sauce</a>, finished with pistachio butter, the thread of sauce being close up to the edge of the tartlets.</p>
		<h3 id="480" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs, Rothschild</h3>
		<p>Finely pound the remains of six crayfish (cooked in <em>Mirepoix</em>) the tails of which have been put aside, and add thereto, little by little, two tablespoonfuls of thick cream. Rub through tammy.</p>
		<p>Add this crayfish cream to the six&#160;beaten eggs; season, and cook on a moderate fire with the object of obtaining a smooth, soft, and creamy preparation. Serve in a timbale and garnish, firstly with a small faggot of asparagus-heads placed in the middle of the eggs, secondly with crayfish tails arranged in a circle round the asparagus, and thirdly with large slices of very black truffles arranged in a crown around the crayfish tails.</p>
		<h3 id="481" class="formula">Scrambled Eggs with Truffles</h3>
		<p>Add one tablespoonful of truffles, cooked in Madeira and cut into dice, to the scrambled eggs. Place these in a timbale, and garnish with a crown of sliced truffles.</p>
		<p>Or place the preparation in tartlet-crusts, made from trimmings of puff-paste and baked without colouration, with a large slice of truffle on the eggs, in each tartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="482" class="formula">Fried Eggs</h3>
		<p>In the long series of egg-preparations, fried eggs are those which hold the least important place, for the fried eggs which are so commonly served at breakfasts in England and America are really eggs <em>à la poêle</em>. The real fried egg is almost unknown in England and America. As a rule, the garnish given to this kind of eggs is served apart, while the latter are dished, either on a napkin or on pieces of toast, with a little fried parsley laid in the middle of the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="483" class="formula">The Preparation of Fried Eggs</h3>
		<p>Any fat, provided it be well purified, may be used for these eggs, but oil is the more customary frying medium. To do these eggs properly, only one should be dealt with at a time.</p>
		<p>Heat some oil in an omelet-pan until it begins to smoke slightly; break the egg on a plate; season it, and let it slide into the pan. Then, with a wooden spoon, quickly cover up the yolk with the solidified portions of the white, in order to keep the former soft.</p>
		<p>Drain the egg on a piece of stretched linen, and proceed in the same way with the other eggs until the required quantity has been treated.</p>
		<h3 id="484" class="formula">Fried Eggs à la Bordelaise</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many halved <a href="#">tomatoes à la Provençale (see tomatoes)</a> as there are eggs, adding a pinch of chopped shallots to each halved tomato. When cooked, garnish them with <em>cèpes</em>, finely minced and <em>sautéd</em> à la Bordelaise; place a fried egg on each garnished half-tomato, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, with fried parsley in the middle.</p>>
		<h3 id="485" class="formula">Harvesters’ Fried Eggs</h3>
		<p>Fry as many <em>blanched</em> rashers of breast of bacon as there are eggs. Arrange in a circle on a dish, alternating the rasher with the eggs. Garnish the centre with large peas, cooked with <em>ciseled</em> lettuce and finely-sliced potatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="486" class="formula">Fried Poached Eggs</h3>
		<p>This kind is recommended, because it may be served with various garnishes—either vegetables of the same nature, a <em>macédoine</em>, vegetable purées, or divers coulis, sauces in keeping with the eggs, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, morels, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> (sliced and <em>sautéd</em> in butter), or tomato-<em>fondue</em>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>After having properly drained and dried the poached eggs, which should have been prepared beforehand, dip them carefully in a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#108">Villeroy sauce (Formula&#160;№108)</a>, and arrange them, one by one, on a dish. When the sauce has set, pass the point of a small knife round the eggs to remove any excess of sauce; take them off the dish to treat them with an <a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#174"><em>anglaise</em> (Formula&#160;№174)</a>, and then roll them in very fine, fresh bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>Plunge them into very hot fat three or&#160;four&#160;minutes before serving; drain them on a piece of linen; salt slightly, arrange in a circle on a dish, and set the selected garnish in the middle.</p>
		<h3 id="487" class="formula">Fried Eggs à la Portugaise</h3>
		<p>Place each of the fried eggs upon a half-tomato à la Portugaise, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, stuffed with rice after having been previously half-baked in the oven. Arrange in a circle on a dish, and garnish the centre with <em>concassed</em> tomatoes <em>sautéd</em> in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="488" class="formula">Fried Eggs à la Provençale</h3>
		<p>Put each fried egg on a half-tomato on a large, thick slice of egg-plant, seasoned, rolled in flour, and fried in oil.</p>
		<p>Set in a circle on a dish, with fried parsley in the centre.</p>
		<h3 id="489" class="formula">Fried Eggs à la Romaine</h3>
		<p>Place the eggs, fried in oil, on little, oval <em>subrics</em> of spinach. The preparation of spinach should have anchovy fillets, cut into dice, added to it.</p>
		<h3 id="490" class="formula">Fried Eggs à la Verdi</h3>
		<p>Cut six&#160;hard-boiled eggs lengthwise. Remove the yolks, pound them with two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter, and add thereto two tablespoonfuls of thick, cold <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">Béchamel</a>, two&#160;tablespoonfuls of cooked herbs, and one&#160;tablespoonful of lean ham, cooked and chopped. Garnish each half-white of egg with a good tablespoonful of this preparation, and smooth it with the blade of a small knife, shaping it in such wise as to represent the other half of the egg. Dip each whole egg, thus formed, into an anglaise, and roll in fine, fresh bread-crumbs. Plunge in hot fat six&#160;minutes before serving, and dish on a napkin, with fried parsley in the centre. Send, separately, to the table a garnish composed of asparagus-heads.</p>
		<h3 id="491" class="formula">Fried Poached Eggs à la Villeroy</h3>
		<p>Prepare the eggs, poached beforehand, as explained under <a href="#486">Formula&#160;№486</a>. Fry them similarly, and dish them on a napkin, with a garnish of fried parsley in the centre.</p>
		<h2>Omelets</h2>
		<p>The procedure for omelets is at once very simple and very difficult, for tastes differ considerably in respect of their preparation. Some like them well done, others insist upon their being just done, while there are yet others who only enjoy them when they are almost liquid.</p>
		<p>Nevertheless, the following conditions apply to all—namely, that there should be homogeneity of the egg-molecules; that the whole mass should be smooth and soft; and that it should be borne in mind that an omelet is in reality scrambled eggs enclosed in a coat composed of coagulated egg.</p>
		<p>I take as my standard an omelet consisting of three eggs, the seasoning of which comprises a small pinch of table-salt and a little pepper, and which requires one-half&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter for its preparation. The quantities of garnishing ingredients given below, therefore, are based upon this standard.</p>
		<h3 id="492" class="formula">The Preparation of Omelets</h3>
		<p>Heat the butter in the omelet-pan, until it exhales the characteristic nutty smell. This will not only lend an exquisite taste to the omelet, but the degree of heat reached in order to produce the aroma will be found to ensure the perfect setting of the eggs.</p>
		<p>Pour in the beaten and seasoned eggs, and stir briskly with a fork, in order to heat the whole mass evenly. If the omelet is to be garnished inside, this ought to be done at the present stage, and then the omelet should be speedily rolled up and transferred to a dish, to be finished in accordance with the nature of its designation.</p>
		<p>When the omelet is on the dish, a piece of butter may be quickly drawn across its surface, to make it glossy.</p>
		<h3 id="493" class="formula">Agnes Sorel Omelet</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with one&#160;tablespoonful of mushrooms, minced and <em>sautéd</em> in butter. Roll it up, and transfer it to a dish.</p>
		<p>Then lay eight small slices of very red tongue upon it, letting their edges overlap; surround with a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#42">veal gravy</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="494" class="formula">Omelet à la Bruxelloise</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two&#160;tablespoonfuls of braised endives, <em>ciseled</em> and thickened with cream. Surround with a thread of cream sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="495" class="formula">Omelet with Cèpes</h3>
		<p>Finely mince two <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of <em>cèpes</em>; toss them in butter in an omelet-pan until they have acquired a brown colour; add thereto a pinch of chopped shallots, and toss them again for a moment.</p>
		<p>Pour the eggs into the omelet-pan; make the omelet; dish up, and surround with a thread of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#23">half glaze</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="496" class="formula">Omelet with Mushrooms</h3>
		<p>Mince two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of raw mushrooms; toss them in butter in an omelet-pan; add the eggs thereto, and make the omelet. Transfer it to a dish, lay three little cooked and grooved mushrooms upon it, and surround with a thread of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#23">half glaze</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="497" class="formula">Omelet à la Choisy</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two tablespoonfuls of braised lettuce the latter should have been <em>ciseled</em> and cohered by means of cream sauce.</p>
		<p>Roll and dish the omelet, and surround it with a thread of cream sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="498" class="formula">Omelet à la Clamart</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two tablespoonfuls of fresh peas, bound by means of butter and combined with a portion of the lettuce used in cooking them, finely <em>ciseled</em>. Roll and dish the omelet, make an opening lengthwise in the centre, and fill the interspace with a tablespoonful of fresh peas.</p>
		<h3 id="499" class="formula">Omelet with Crusts</h3>
		<p>Combine with the beaten and seasoned eggs two tablespoonfuls of small crusts, cut into dice, fried in clarified butter, and very hot.</p>
		<p>Make the omelet very quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="500" class="formula">Omelet with Spinach</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two&#160;tablespoonfuls of spinach with cream, and surround with a thread of cream sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="501" class="formula">Omelet à la Fermière</h3>
		<p>Add to the beaten and seasoned eggs one tablespoonful of very lean, cooked ham cut into dice. Pour the eggs into the omelet-pan, and cook them quickly, taking care to keep them very soft. Let the outside harden slightly; tilt into the dish after the manner of a pancake, and besprinkle the surface with a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="502" class="formula">Omelet Aux Fines Herbes</h3>
		<p>Add to the eggs one tablespoonful of parsley, chervil, chive, and tarragon leaves, all to be finely chopped and almost equally apportioned.</p>
		<p>Make the omelet in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="503" class="formula">Omelet with Vegetable Marrow Flowers</h3>
		<p>Add to the eggs one and one-half <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of the calices of freshly-plucked and young vegetable-marrow flowers; <em>cisel</em> and stew them, and add thereto a pinch of chopped parsley. Surround the omelet with a thread of tomato sauce.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—This omelet may be made with oil, as well as with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="504" class="formula">Omelet with Chicken’s Liver</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two tablespoonfuls of chicken’s liver, which should be cut into dice or finely sliced, seasoned, quickly sautéd in butter, and cohered with half-glaze. Dish the omelet, make an opening lengthwise in the centre, and place one tablespoonful of chicken’s liver, prepared as above, in the interspaces. Besprinkle with chopped parsley, and surround the omelet with a thread of half-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="505" class="formula">Omelet with Artichoke-bottoms</h3>
		<p>Finely mince two small artichoke-bottoms (raw if possible), season them, and slightly colour them in butter. Add the beaten and seasoned eggs, and make the omelet in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="506" class="formula">Omelet with Young Shoots of Hops</h3>
		<p>Stuff the omelet with two&#160;tablespoonfuls of young shoots of hops, cohered with cream, and finish it in the usual way. Open it slightly along the top, and garnish with a few young shoots of hops put aside for the purpose.</p>
		<p>The omelet may be surrounded with a thread of cream sauce, but this is optional.</p>
		<h3 id="507" class="formula">Omelet à la Lyonnaise</h3>
		<p>Finely mince half&#160;an&#160;onion, and cook it with butter in an omelet-pan, letting it brown slightly. Add the eggs, with which a large pinch of chopped parsley has been mixed, and make the omelet in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="508" class="formula">Omelet Maxim</h3>
		<p>Make the omelet in the usual way. Lay upon it alternate rows of crayfish tails and slices of truffle. Surround the omelet with a fine border of frogs’ legs “<em>sautéd</em> à la Meunière”, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, seasoned raw, rolled in flour, and <em>sautéd</em> in butter until quite cooked and well <em>gilded</em>.</p>
		<h3 id="509" class="formula">Omelet with Morels</h3>
		<p>Mince and toss in butter two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of very firm morels. Two should be put aside, which, after having been cut in two, lengthwise, and <em>sautéd</em> with the others, should be placed on a dish when the omelet is about to be made. Having dished the latter, place the four <em>sautéd</em> and reserved pieces of morels upon it, and surround it with a thread of half-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="510" class="formula">Omelet Mousseline</h3>
		<p>Beat the yolks of three eggs in a bowl with a small pinch of salt and a tablespoonful of very thick cream. Add thereto the three whites, whisked to a stiff froth, and pour this preparation into a wide omelet-pan containing one&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of very hot butter. <em>Sauté</em> the omelet, tossing it very quickly, and taking care to turn the outside edges of the preparation constantly towards the centre; when the whole mass seems uniformly set, roll the omelet up quickly, and dish it. This omelet should be sent to the table immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="510a" class="formula">Omelet with Mousserons</h3>
		<p>Mince two&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of very fresh <em>mousserons</em>; toss them in butter in the omelet-pan; add thereto the eggs mixed with a pinch of chopped parsley; make the omelet, dish it, and surround it with a thread of half-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="511" class="formula">Omelet à la Nantua</h3>
		<p>Add to the omelet six&#160;little&#160;crayfishes’ tails, each of which must be cut into three, and the whole mixed with a little <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#95">Nantua sauce</a>. Put two fine crayfishes’ tails on the omelet, making them touch at their thicker ends, and surround with a thread of Nantua sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="512" class="formula">Omelet Parmentier</h3>
		<p>Add a pinch of chopped parsley to the eggs, and, when about to pour the latter into the omelet-pan, add two tablespoonfuls of potato cut into dice, seasoned, <em>sautéd</em> in butter, and very hot. Make the omelet in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="513" class="formula">Omelet à la Paysanne</h3>
		<p>Frizzle with butter, in the omelet-pan, two oz. of breast of bacon cut into dice. Add to the eggs one&#160;tablespoonful of finely-sliced potatoes <em>sautéd</em> in butter, one-half&#160;tablespoonful of ciseled sorrel stewed in butter, and a pinch of <em>concassed</em> chervil.</p>
		<p>Pour the whole over the bacon-dice; cook the eggs quickly, keeping them soft; turn the omelet after the manner of a pancake, and tilt it immediately on to a round dish.</p>
		<h3 id="514" class="formula">Omelet with Asparagus-tops</h3>
		<p>Add one and one-half tablespoonfuls of blanched asparagus-tops, stewed in butter, to the omelet. Having dished the omelet, open it along the middle, and lay a nice little faggot of asparagus-tops in the interspace.</p>
		<h3 id="515" class="formula">Omelet à la Provençale</h3>
		<p>Rub the bottom of the omelet-pan lightly with a clove of garlic; put two&#160;tablespoonfuls of oil into the utensil, and heat it until it smokes.</p>
		<p>Throw into the oil a fine, peeled, pressed, and pipped tomato, cut into dice and besprinkled with a pinch of concussed parsley. Cook it quickly, tossing it the while, and add it to the beaten and seasoned eggs. <a href="#">Make the omelet in the usual way</a>.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The nature of this preparation demands the use of oil in treating the tomato, but, failing oil, clarified butter may be used.</p>
		<h3 id="516" class="formula">Omelet with Kidneys</h3>
		<p>Add to the omelet a tablespoonful of calf’s or sheep’s kidney, cut into dice, seasoned with salt and pepper, <em>sautéd</em> quickly in butter, and cohered by means of half-glaze. Having dished the omelet, divide it down the middle, lay some reserved kidney-dice in the interspace, and surround with a thread of half-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="517" class="formula">Omelet à la Rossini</h3>
		<p>Add to the beaten and seasoned eggs one dessertspoonful of cooked foie gras and as much truffle, cut into small dice. Having dished the omelet, place in the middle thereof a small rectangular piece of heated foie gras, and two slices of truffle on either side of the latter. Surround it with a thread of half-glaze flavoured with truffle essence.</p>
		<h3 id="518" class="formula">Omelet with Truffles</h3>
		<p>Add to the omelet one tablespoonful of truffles, cut into dice. Make the omelet, dish it, and lay a row of fine slices of truffles upon it. Surround it with a thread of melted meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="519" class="formula">Hot Lapwings’ and Plovers’ Eggs</h3>
		<p><em>Note</em>.—In the chapter on hors-d’œuvres, where recipes were given which deal with lapwings’ eggs, I made a few remarks relative to their freshness, and indicated the procedure for boiling them soft and hard.</p>
		<h3 id="520" class="formula">Scrambled Lapwings’ Eggs</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for ordinary scrambled eggs, all the recipes given for the latter being perfectly applicable to lapwings’ eggs. They require, however, very great care in their preparation, and it should be borne in mind that one ordinary hen’s egg is equal to about three lapwings’ eggs.</p>
		<h3 id="521" class="formula">Lapwings’ Eggs à la Danoise</h3>
		<p>Poach the eggs as directed in the recipe dealing with the process, and dish them up in tartlet-crusts garnished with a purée of smoked salmon.</p>
		<h3 id="522" class="formula">Omelet of Lapwings’ Eggs</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for other omelets, but one ordinary hen’s egg is generally added to every six&#160;lapwings’ eggs in order to give more body to the preparation. All the omelet recipes already given may be applied to lapwings’ eggs.</p>
		<h3 id="523" class="formula">Lapwings’ Eggs à la Royale</h3>
		<p>Garnish as many small tartlet moulds as there are eggs with chicken-forcemeat. Poach, turn out the moulds, and hollow out the centres of the tartlets in such wise as to be able to set an egg upright in each.</p>
		<p>Place a soft- or hard-boiled egg on each forcemeat tartlet, coat the eggs with a light purée of mushrooms, besprinkle with chopped truffles, and arrange in a circle on a dish.</p>
		<h3 id="524" class="formula">Lapwings’ Eggs au Troubadour</h3>
		<p>Select as many large morels as there are eggs. Remove the stalks, and widen the openings of the morels; season them, and stew them in butter. Boil the lapwings’ eggs soft.</p>
		<p>Garnish each stewed morel with an egg; set them on little tartlet-crusts garnished with a light, foie-gras purée, and arrange them in a circle on a dish.</p>
		<h2>Cold Eggs</h2>
		<p>The preparation of cold eggs is not limited by classical rules; it rests with the skill and artistic imagination of the operator, and, since fancifulness and originality are always closely allied to artistic imagination, it follows that the varieties evolved may be infinite.</p>
		<p>Indeed, so various and numerous are the recipes dealing with this kind of egg-preparations that I must limit myself to a selection only of the more customary ones, culled as far as possible from my own repertory.</p>
		<h3 id="525" class="formula">Cold Eggs Alexandra</h3>
		<p>Take some cold, well-trimmed, poached eggs; dry them and cover them with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a>. Place a fine indented slice of truffle in the centre of each, and sprinkle with a cold, white, melted aspic jelly until they are thinly coated therewith. Slip the point of a small knife round each egg with the view of moving them more easily, and transfer them to oval tartlet-crusts made from puff-paste trimmings, baked without colouration.</p>
		<p>Lay a border of caviare round the eggs; dish them in the form of a crown, and put some chopped jelly in the centre.</p>
		<h3 id="526" class="formula">Cold Eggs à l’andalouse</h3>
		<p>Cover some cold, well-dried, poached eggs with a tomato purée combined with a full third of its volume of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#105">Soubise purée</a> and one-half pint of melted aspic jelly per pint of sauce. Cut some pimentos, marinaded in oil, into very thin strips, and lay these, after the manner of a lattice, upon each egg.</p>
		<p>Now garnish as many oiled, oval tartlet-moulds as there are eggs with tomato purée, thickened with jelly, and let the garnish set on ice. Turn out the moulds, and put an egg upon each of the tomato tartlets; arrange the latter in a circle on a dish surrounded with a chain composed of linked rings of onion, and garnish the centre with chopped, white jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="527" class="formula">Cold Eggs Argenteuil</h3>
		<p>Coat some well-dried, soft-boiled eggs, slightly cut at their base to make them stand, with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a> combined with a good third of its volume of asparagus-tops purée. Sprinkle repeatedly with cold, melted, white jelly, until a glossy coating is obtained.</p>
		<p>Garnish the centre of a dish with a salad of asparagus-tops surround this with fine slices of cold potato, cooked in water and cut up with an even fancy-cutter, one inch in diameter, and arrange the eggs all round.</p>
		<h3 id="528" class="formula">Cold Eggs Capucine</h3>
		<p>Carefully dry some cold, poached eggs, and half-coat them lengthwise with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a>; complete the coating on the other side with a smooth purée of truffles, thickened with jelly. Leave these two coats to set, placing the eggs in the cool or on ice for that purpose.</p>
		<p>Garnish the centre of a round dish with a small pyramid of cold, truffled Brandade of <em>morue</em>, and set the eggs round the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="529" class="formula">Cold Eggs Carème</h3>
		<p>Cook the eggs on the dish, leave them to cool, and trim them with an even fancy-cutter, oval in shape. Place each egg on an oval tartlet-crust, garnished with dice of cooked salmon, cohered with mayonnaise.</p>
		<p>Surround with a thread of caviare, and lay a thin slice of very black truffle on each egg.</p>
		<h3 id="530" class="formula">Cold Eggs Colbert</h3>
		<p>Garnish some small, oval moulds in <em>Chartreuse fashion</em>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, like a draught-board. Put a small, cold, poached egg in to each mould, fill up with melted, white jelly, and leave to set. Garnish the centre of a dish with a heaped vegetable salad; arrange the eggs taken from their moulds around this, and surround with a little chopped jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="531" class="formula">Cold Eggs Colinette</h3>
		<p>Let a thin coat of white jelly set upon the bottom and sides of some small, oval moulds. Garnish the latter with some small dice, consisting of white of egg and truffles, placing them so as to simulate a draught-board; now insert a very small, cold, poached egg into each mould, and fill up with a melted jelly.</p>
		<p>Garnish the centre of a dish with a “Rachel” salad, encircled by a ring of sliced, cold potatoes, cooked in water, and place the eggs, removed from their moulds, all round. Border the dish with indented crescents of white jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="532" class="formula">Cold Eggs with Tarragon</h3>
		<p>Mould these in <em>baba-moulds</em>, or in porcelain <em>cocottes</em>; some times they may simply be dished up on small tartlet-crusts.</p>
		<p>The preparation consists of poached or soft-boiled eggs, garnished with blanched tarragon leaves, or coated or moulded with a very fine tarragon jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="533" class="formula">Cold Eggs, Frou-frou</h3>
		<p>Select some very small poached eggs of equal size, cover them with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a> combined with about a third of its volume of a purée of hard-boiled egg-yolks.</p>
		<p>Garnish the top of each egg with an indented ring of very black truffle, and surround the base of the eggs with a narrow ribbon composed of chopped truffles. Glaze with jelly, and leave to set on ice.</p>
		<p>Prepare a salad of green vegetables (peas, French beans cut into dice or lozenges, asparagus-tops); thicken it with a very little mayonnaise mixed with melted jelly. Pour this preparation into an oiled mould, and leave it to set. For dishing, turn out the salad in the middle of a dish; surround the base with a line of chopped jelly; encircle the whole with the eggs, letting them rest on the jelly, and garnish the dish with a border of dice cut in very clear, white jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="534" class="formula">Cold Eggs Moscovite</h3>
		<p>Slightly level both ends of some shelled, hard-boiled eggs. Surround the tops and the bases with three little anchovy fillets, and place a bit of truffle just half-way along each egg. Eggs prepared in this way resemble little barrels, whereof the anchovy fillets imitate the iron hoops, and the bits of truffle the bungs. By means of a tubular cutter empty the eggs with care; garnish them with caviare, and shape the latter to a point, outside the edges of the egg.</p>
		<p>Lay each egg in an artichoke-bottom, cooked white, and garnished with finely-chopped jelly, and arrange them in a circle on a dish with chopped jelly in the centre.</p>
		<h3 id="535" class="formula">Cold Eggs à la Nantua</h3>
		<p>Prepare some hard-boiled eggs to resemble little barrels, after the manner described above. For every six&#160;eggs keep ready and cold eighteen&#160;crayfish cooked à la Bordelaise. Shell the tails, put two aside for each egg, and cut the remainder into dice; finely pound the bodies and remains, add thereto three&#160;tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and rub through tammy. Add to this cullis one tablespoonful of thick mayonnaise.</p>
		<p>Bind the crayfish tails, cut into dice, with a few tablespoonfuls of this sauce, and garnish the eggs, emptied by the method indicated above, with the preparation of dice, making it stand out of the eggs in the shape of a small dome. Garnish each dome with a rosette composed of four halved crayfish tails and four truffle lozenges.</p>
		<p>Glaze well with jelly; set the eggs upon artichoke-bottoms garnished with a mayonnaise with crayfish cullis, and arrange in a circle on a dish.</p>
		<h3 id="536" class="formula">Cold Eggs Polignac</h3>
		<p>Prepare some <a href="#456">eggs à la Polignac, as explained under “Moulded Eggs”</a>, and leave them to cool. Select some moulds a little larger than those used in the cooking of the eggs; pour into each half a tablespoonful of melted, white jelly, and leave to set. Then put an egg into each mould, and fill up the space around the eggs with melted, white jelly.</p>
		<p>Leave to set, turn out the moulds, arrange the mouldings on a dish, and surround them with dice of faintly coloured jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="537" class="formula">Cold Eggs à la Reine</h3>
		<p>Prepare some soft-boiled eggs, and leave them to cool. Take as many cottage brioches as there are eggs; trim them to the level of the fluting, and remove the crumb from the inside, so as to form little <em>croustades</em> of them. Garnish the bottom and the sides of these <em>croustades</em> with a fine mince of white chicken-meat, thickened with mayonnaise, and season moderately with cayenne. Place a shelled, soft-boiled egg in each <em>croustade</em> coat thinly with mayonnaise slightly thickened by means of a jelly; lay a fine piece of truffle on each egg, and, when the sauce has set, glaze with jelly, using a fine brush for the purpose.</p>
		<p>Dish up on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="538" class="formula">Cold Eggs, Rubens</h3>
		<p>Season some cooked young shoots of hops with salt and freshly-ground pepper; add thereto some chopped parsley and chervil, and a purée of plainly-cooked tomatoes combined with just sufficient jelly to ensure the cohesion of the hops. Mould in oiled tartlet-moulds.</p>
		<p>Coat some well-dried, cold, poached eggs with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a>; garnish with pieces of tarragon leaves, and glaze with jelly.</p>
		<p>Turn out the tartlet-moulds; set an egg on each of the mouldings, and arrange them in a circle on a dish, placing between each egg a piece of very clear jelly, cut to the shape of a cock’s comb.</p>
	</body>
</html>