<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Relevés and Entrées of Butcher’s Meat</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XV <span epub:type="title">Relevés and Entrées of Butcher’s Meat</span></h1>
		<h2 class="part">Beef</h2>
		<h3 id="1043" class="formula">Fillet of Beef (Relevé)</h3>
		<p>Fillet of beef for a Relevé may consist either of the whole piece, trimmed, studded, or larded, or a more or less large piece cut from the whole, and treated after one of the methods suited to the whole fillet. The fillet may be braised, poëled, or roasted; but the last two modes of preparation suit it best, as it is generally preferred underdone and somewhat red towards the centre.</p>
		<p>The garnishes for a Relevé of fillet of beef are as numerous as they are varied; and, as they are applicable not only to fillet of beef but to all Relevés of butcher’s meat, I give them here in preference, since fillet of beef may be considered the choicest of Relevés.</p>
		<h3 id="1044" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Andalouse</h3>
		<p>Having removed all the connective tissue from the fillet, lard it with thin strips of bacon, and poële or roast it. Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with:</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Some grilled half-capsicums, filled with “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2253">Riz à la Grecque</a>”;</li>
				<li>roundels of egg-plant, two inches in diameter and one inch thick, hollowed out to form cases, fried in oil, and garnished with concassed tomatoes tossed in oil. Arrange the half-capsicums and the egg-plant alternately round the fillet, and place a grilled chifolata sausage between each.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—The gravy taken from the poëling-stock, strained, cleared of all grease, and thickened.</p>
		<h3 id="1045" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Bouquetière</h3>
		<p>Having larded the fillet and poeled or roasted it, set it on a long dish and surround it with:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Small heaps of carrots and turnips, turned by means of a small grooved spoon, and cooked in consommé;</li>
				<li>small heaps of little potatoes turned to the shape of olives and cooked in butter;</li>
				<li>small heaps of peas and of French beans, cut into lozenges and cohered with butter;</li>
				<li>five bunches of cauliflower.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Arrange these different products in such wise as to vary their colours and throw them into relief.</p>
		<p>Serve the gravy of the fillet separately, after having cleared it of all grease and strained it.</p>
		<h3 id="1046" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Camargo</h3>
		<p>Trim the fillet; suppress the long muscle lying on its thicker side (French: <span xml:lang="fr">chaîne</span>), and open the meat lengthwise from the same side. Withdraw the meat from the inside of the fillet so as to leave a wall of meat only one-half inch thick all round. Finely chop the withdrawn meat and combine with it, per <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr>, little by little, from four to five tablespoonfuls of cream and four <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of fresh foie gras. Season with salt and pepper, rectify the consistence of the paste, and add thereto, per <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr>, two <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of chopped truffles.</p>
		<p>Fill the hollow fillet with this forcemeat, thereby returning it to its original shape, and stud its top surface with pointed pieces of truffle one inch long by one-quarter inch wide, stuck into the meat aslant. In order to facilitate this operation, bore the meat, before the insertion of the pieces of truffles, by means of a small knife.</p>
		<p>Now cover the fillet with slices of bacon and string it laterally, leaving a space of one inch between each strand.</p>
		<p>Poële the meat carefully, and take care that the forcemeat inside be well, but not over-done. This may be ascertained by thrusting a braiding needle into the thickest part of the fillet, as soon as the meat seems resisting and elastic to the touch. If the needle withdraws clean, the fillet is ready.</p>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent to the table separately</em>.—The reduced poëling-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease, and added to a Périgueux sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1047" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Châterlaine</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet, poele it, and glaze it just before dishing up. Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish:—</p>
				<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Medium-sized artichoke-bottoms garnished with thick Soubise;</li>
				<li>fine, peeled chestnuts cooked in the poeling-liquor;</li>
				<li>small heaps of lightly browned potatoes, cooked in butter at the last moment.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—The reduced poëling-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease and added to a Madeira sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1048" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Clamart</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish and surround it with:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Little tartlet-crusts garnished with <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2193">peas, prepared à la Française</a>, combined with the ciseled lettuce used in their cooking-process, and cohered with butter;</li>
				<li>small quoits of “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2228">Pommes de Terre Macaire</a>”. Arrange the tartlet-crusts and the quoits alternately.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—The gravy slightly thickened.</p>
		<h3 id="1049" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Dauphine</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poéle it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish of potato croquettes à la Dauphine, moulded to the shape of corks, and fried just before dishing up.</p>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—Pale half-glaze with Madeira.</p>
		<h3 id="1050" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Dubarry</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet with bacon, and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with small heaps of cauliflower moulded to the shape of balls, coated with Mornay sauce, besprinkled with grated cheese, and put in the oven for the gratin to form just in time for the dishing up.</p>
		<p>Send a thickened gravy to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1051" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Duchesse</h3>
		<p>Either roast or poéle the larded fillet. If it be poéled, glaze it at the last moment.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish and surround it with potatoes à la Duchesse (the shape of which may be varied according to fancy), lightly browned and coloured in the oven for a few minutes before the dishing.</p>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—Half-glaze with Madeira.</p>
		<h3 id="1052" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Financière</h3>
		<p>Poéle the larded fillet.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last moment and set it on a long dish. Surround it with a garnish consisting of</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>quenelles of ordinary forcemeat;</li>
				<li>grooved and cooked button-mushroom heads;</li>
				<li>cocks’ combs and kidneys;</li>
				<li>turned and blanched olives.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Each garnish should be placed on the dish in distinct heaps.</p>
		<p>Cover the garnish with a little financiere sauce, and send the same sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1053" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Gastronome</h3>
		<p>Insert truffles, cut to the shape of ordinary larding-bacon, into the fillet, and set the latter to marinade for four or five hours in one-quarter pint of Madeira.</p>
		<p>This done, thoroughly wipe it; cover it with slices of bacon, and braise it in Madeira. When about to serve it, remove the slices of bacon glaze it slightly, and set it on a long dish.</p>
		<p>Surround it with a garnish consisting of</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>large and thick slices of truffle, cooked in a fine mirepoix with champagne;</li>
				<li>fine chestnuts cooked in consommé and glazed;</li>
				<li>fine cocks’ kidneys, rolled in pale, thin meat-glaze;</li>
				<li>noodles tossed in butter. These different garnishes should be arranged in alternate heaps, and connected by means of medium-sized truffles cooked in Madeira.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—Half-glaze combined with the cooking-liquor of the truffles, strained through linen and reduced to two-thirds.</p>
		<h3 id="1054" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Godard</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet with alternate strips of bacon and salted tongue, and poële it. Glaze it a few minutes before serving; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish consisting of</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>quenelles of ordinary forcemeat with chopped mushrooms and truffles added thereto, moulded by means of a coffee-spoon, and poached just before dishing up;</li>
				<li>turned and cooked button-mushroom heads;</li>
				<li>glazed lamb sweetbreads;</li>
				<li>cocks’ combs and kidneys;</li>
				<li>truffles fashioned like olives.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Slightly coat these garnishes, which should be arranged in heaps, with sauce; finish the dish with four oval quenelles decked with tongue and truffle, and place one of these at either end and side of the dish.</p>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—A Godard sauce combined with the cooking-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease and reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="1055" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Hongroise</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish and surround it with a garnish consisting of medium-sized onions, cooked in white consommé, and glazed in butter at the last minute.</p>
		<p><em>Sauce to be sent separately</em>.—Thin Soubise with paprika.</p>
		<h3 id="1056" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Japonaise</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poéle it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it just before dishing; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish consisting of</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>small croustades cooked in grooved brioche-moulds and garnished with Japanese artichokes cohered by means of velouté;</li>
				<li>potato croquettes moulded to the shape of eggs and fried just before dishing up. Arrange the croustades and the croquettes alternately.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send the gravy of the fillet, strained and cleared of all grease, to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1057" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Jardinière</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish and surround it with the following garnishes, which should be arranged in distinct heaps in such wise as to alternate their colours:—Carrots and turnips, raised by means of a grooved spoon-cutter and cooked separately in consommé; peas, French beans in lozenge-form and small flageolets, each of which vegetables should be cooked in a manner in keeping with its nature, and separately cohered with butter; portions of freshly-cooked cauliflower, kept very white and of tight growth.</p>
		<p>Send some Hollandaise sauce for the cauliflower, and some clear gravy, to the table, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1058" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Lorette</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish as follows:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>A small pyramid of Lorette potatoes (№2226) at either end of the fillet;</li>
				<li>fine heaps of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, on either side.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send some tomated half-glaze separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1059" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Macédoine</h3>
		<p>Prepare the fillet as directed under “<a href="#1057">Filet de Bœuf Jardinière</a>”. Set it on a long dish and surround it with a Macédoine garnish. The latter comprises the same ingredients as the “Jardinière”; but, instead of their being heaped separately, they are mixed together and cohered by means of butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1060" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf au Madère et aux Champignons</h3>
		<p>Lard and poële the fillet.</p>
		<p>Glaze it; dish it as before, and surround it with fine mushroom-heads, turned and grooved.</p>
		<p>Send to the table, separately, a Madeira sauce finished with the poëling-liquor, cleared of all grease and reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="1061" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Moderne</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet alternately with bacon and tongue, and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it just before dishing; set it on a long dish, and surround it with garnish as follows:—On either side of the fillet lay a row of small “chartreuses”, made in small, hexagonal moulds.</p>
		<p>To make these “chartreuses”, butter the moulds and deck the bottom of each with a slice of truffle, big enough to almost entirely cover it. Now line the sides of the moulds with various vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans; each of which vegetables should be cooked as its nature requires.</p>
		<p>Arrange them in such wise as to vary their colours, and spread over the whole a thin layer of rather flimsy forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Fill up the moulds with braised cabbage, which should be well pressed with the view of ridding it of all its moisture, and put the chartreuses in a bain-marie ten minutes before dishing the fillet.</p>
		<p>At either end of the fillet set some braised half-lettuces, arranging them so that they frame the ends of the fillet in half-circles.</p>
		<p>Between the lettuce and the chartreuses set four round quenelles, decorated with salted tongue and poached in time to be ready for the dishing of the meat.</p>
		<p>Send to the table, separately, the poeling-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease, strained, and slightly thickened with arrowroot.</p>
		<h3 id="1062" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Montmorency</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it just before dishing up, and set it on a long dish.</p>
		<p>Send to the table, separately, a Madeira sauce finished with the poëling-liquor of the fillet, to which add (per pint of the sauce) three tablespoonfuls of red-currant jelly; two tablespoonfuls of finely-grated horse-radish, or the latter finely grated first, and then chopped; thirty moderately-sweetened cherries, set to soak in tepid water seven or eight minutes beforehand, and drained just before being added to the sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1063" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Nivernaise</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last moment; set it on a long dish, and surround it with garnish as follows:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Heaps of small carrots, shaped like elongated olives, cooked in white consommé and a little butter and sugar, and rolled in their cooking-liquor (reduced to the consistence of syrup), with the view of glazing them.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send the poëling-liquor (cleared of all grease and strained) to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1064" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Orientale</h3>
		<p>Roast the fillet “plain”, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, without previously larding it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, taking care to alternate the ingredients, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>,</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>timbales of “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2253">Riz à la Grecque</a>” moulded in buttered dariole-moulds, each timbale being placed on a medium-sized half-tomato, seasoned and tossed in butter;</li>
				<li>croquettes of sweet potatoes, moulded to the shape of corks, and fried just before dishing up.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send to the table, separately, a highly seasoned tomato sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1065" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Périgourdine</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it just before dishing up; set it on a long dish, and surround it with medium-sized truffles, freshly cooked in Madeira and fine mirepoix, and glazed. Send a Périgueux sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1066" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Petit Duc</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it in good time; set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>crisp, small patties of puff paste garnished with asparagus-heads cohered by means of cream sauce;</li>
				<li>medium-sized artichoke-bottoms, prepared in the usual way, and garnished with slices of truffle.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send, separately, a light, meat glaze, combined with four <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter per one-half pint.</p>
		<h3 id="1067" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Portugaise</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and garnish it as follows:—</p>
		<ol>
			<li>A row of medium-sized, stuffed tomatoes on either side.</li>
			<li>At either end a nice heap of potatoes, shaped like long olives, and cooked in butter just before dishing up.</li>
		</ol>
		<p>Send a light, Portugaise sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1068" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Provençale</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last minute; set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following, alternated:—Tomatoes and mushrooms stuffed à la Provençale (<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2266">№2266</a> and <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2075">№2075</a>).</p>
		<p>Send a tomatéd half-glaze sauce, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1069" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Régence</h3>
		<p>Marinade the fillet in Rhine wine two or three hours in advance; cover it with a <a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#227">Matignon (№227)</a>; envelop the fillet and the <em>Matignon</em> in slices of bacon, and set the whole to braise with its marinade.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before dishing up, remove the slices of bacon and the <em>Matignon</em>, and glaze the fillet.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, which, except for the decorated quenelles, which are left plain, should be arranged in distinct heaps, and slightly coated with sauce:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>quenelles of ordinary forcemeat, combined with chopped tongue, moulded by means of a coffee-spoon, and poached at the last minute;</li>
				<li>collops of foie gras tossed in butter;</li>
				<li>fine cocks’ combs;</li>
				<li>very white, cooked mushroom-heads, and truffles shaped like large olives.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send, separately, the braising-liquor of the fillet, cleared of all grease, strained with pressure, reduced, and added to a half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1070" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Renaissance</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and poële it.</p>
		<p>Glaze it at the last minute; set it on a long dish, and surround it with a garnish of early-season vegetables, comprising carrots and turnips, raised by means of a large, round, grooved spoon-cutter, cooked in consommé and glazed; very green peas; small French beans; small faggots of asparagus-heads; portions of cauliflowers, and small potatoes cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>Renaissance garnish is, however, subject to no fixed rules, and it may consist of all the available early-season vegetables, small artichoke-bottoms included.</p>
		<p>Send a clear gravy separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1071" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Richelieu</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet, and either poële or roast it.</p>
		<p>If it be poëled, glaze it in good time; set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish, which should be arranged in distinct heaps and in such wise as to contrast its colouring:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>Small tomatoes and medium-sized mushrooms, stuffed;</li>
				<li>small or half-lettuces, braised and well trimmed;</li>
				<li>potatoes, the size of pigeons’ eggs, cooked in butter and prepared just in time for the dishing up.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Send the cooking-liquor, cleared of all grease, and slightly thickened, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1072" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Saint-Florentin</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>At either end, a heap of cèpes, prepared à la Bordelaise at the last minute;</li>
				<li>croquettes of potatoes à la Saint-Florentin, on either side. These croquettes are prepared from the same potato-paste as “Pommes Duchesse”, but in this case the paste receives a copious addition of chopped tongue. Mould them to the shape of lozenges, and treat them a l’anglaise, using for the purpose very fine vermicelli instead of bread-crumbs.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Fry the croquettes just before dishing up.</p>
		<p>Send, separately, a Bordelaise sauce with white wine, kept somewhat light.</p>
		<h3 id="1073" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Saint-Germain</h3>
		<p>Lard the fillet and roast it.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the following garnish:—</p>
		<div class="inline-list">
			<ol>
				<li>At either end of the fillet a nice heap of glazed carrots, cut to the shape of olives;</li>
				<li>a heap of very small potatoes, cooked in butter, on either side of the carrots;</li>
				<li>a row of small timbales of very green <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2196">peas purée</a> on either side of the fillet.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<h3 id="1074" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Talleyrand</h3>
		<p>Cut up the necessary number of raw truffles for the garnishing of the fillet. The pieces of truffle should be one inch long and one-quarter inch wide, and so pointed as to enable them to be easily stuck into the meat.</p>
		<p>To stick them in, make small incisions in the fillet, and in these set the bits of truffle. Marinade the fillet for three hours in Madeira; wrap it in slices of bacon; string it, and set it to braise with its marinade.</p>
		<p>This done, remove the slices of bacon glaze it, and set it; on a long dish. Send the following garnish separately:— Poached macaroni, cut into pieces one and one-half inches long, and combined per <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> with three <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of grated Gruyère and Parmesan, one and one-half <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter, three <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of a julienne of truffles, and three <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of cooked foie gras, cut into large dice.</p>
		<p>As an adjunct, send a Périgueux sauce with a fine julienne of truffles instead of the latter chopped.</p>
		<h3 id="1075" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets de Bœuf Froid (Relevé)</h3>
		<p>Fillet of beef, when properly dished, makes an excellent cold Relevé.</p>
		<p>For this purpose lard it, roast it (keeping it somewhat underdone towards the centre), and, when it is quite cold, trim, and coat it with half-melted jelly.</p>
		<p>Then set it either directly upon a dish or upon a cushion of bread or carved rice, which makes the dish more sightly when the garnish is added.</p>
		<p>Before setting the fillet on the dish or on the cushion of rice, it is well to cut a slice one-fifth inch thick from the whole of its base; leave this slice under the fillet when dishing; by this means, when the carving is proceeded with, each slice will be found to be neatly trimmed.</p>
		<p>Cold fillet of beef allows of every possible cold vegetable garnish.</p>
		<p>The vegetables should be cooked with the greatest care and be left to cool naturally.</p>
		<p>When they are quite cold, either cohere them by means of jelly, or set them round the fillet in neat heaps, taking care to alternate their shades, and coat them with almost melted aspic.</p>
		<p>Finally, between each heap of vegetables lay a little chopped and very clear aspic, and, round the whole, arrange a border consisting of bits of aspic (round, oval, square, lozenge-shaped, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>) very regularly cut.</p>
		<p>I see no reason for devoting any further space to this subject. What has been said should, I think, suffice to show how varied and numerous are the possible ways of dishing cold fillet of beef, the minute details of which may, with advantage, be left to the ingenuity of the operator.</p>
		<h2 class="part">Fillet of beef for entrées</h2>
		<h3 id="1076" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Châteaubriand, Fillet Steak, Tournedos</h3>
		<p>By <em>fillet</em> steaks are understood those pieces of meat cut laterally from the thickest part of the fillet of beef.</p>
		<p>They ought to be about one and one-half inches thick, and weigh from six to seven <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> Tournedos are half-fillets in respect of their weight, and might well be called the “kernels” of the fillet of beef. The usual thickness of a tournedos is about one and one-quarter inches, and they should be cut to a nice, round shape. With the object of preserving their shape, they may be tied round with string.</p>
		<p>Châteaubriand is also procured from the centre of fillet of beef, and its weight is often twice, thrice, and sometimes more than thrice as much as that of the ordinary fillet steaks.</p>
		<p>As a rule, especially when grilled, it constitutes a special roast for luncheons; when it is cooked in the saucepan, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, sautéd, it is more often served as a Relevé.</p>
		<p>The same garnishes suit fillet, Châteaubriands, and tournedos, the only necessary modifications being in respect of size and arrangement, which should be subject to the size of the piece of meat.</p>
		<p>The garnishes detailed hereafter are for the tournedos, which supply the greatest number of the dishes prepared from the three different cuts of fillet. If a fillet steak be prepared after one of the following recipes, the garnish should be made a little stronger, and its constituents modified in the dishing, neither of which changes need in any way alter the formula.</p>
		<p>The same holds with regard to a Cháteaubriand. Thus, for example, if it be required to prepare a fillet steak or a Châteaubriand, after the recipe “<a href="#1077">Tournedos à l’Algérienne</a>”, the number of croquettes and tomatoes should be half as much again, and they should be arranged alternately round the meat, instead of the latter being placed on the croquettes, as in the case of the tournedos.</p>
		<p>If the fillets are to be treated “<a href="#">à l’Alsacienne</a>”, after the recipe for tournedos, the sauerkraut should be dished in a timbale instead of in tartlet-crusts, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>All that is needed, therefore, is a change in the method of arrangement, and this can be decided upon at a glance, without necessarily interfering with the principle of the recipe.</p>
		<p>It should be borne in mind that nearly all the garnishes given under fillet of beef, served whole, may be applied to Châteaubriands, fillet steak, and tournedos, provided they be made in proportion to the size of the different pieces. I see no need, therefore, to repeat these vegetable recipes in so far as they relate to the various cuts of fillet of beef.</p>
		<p>It is only necessary to add that for the fillet of beef, as well as for tournedos, noisettes, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, a large number of plain vegetable garnishes may be used, the details of which I prefer to omit for fear of unduly lengthening this work.</p>
		<p>Whole fillets, fillet steak, and tournedos may thus be served with garnishes of braised celery, tuberous fennel, cardoons with gravy, chow-chow and endives, braised lettuce, various purées, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and, generally, with all the vegetable preparations given in <a href="17-roasts-and-salads.xhtml">Chapter XVII</a>.</p>
		<h2 class="subtitle">Important Remarks relative to the Sauces suited to Entrées of Butcher’s Meat, Garnished with Vegetables</h2>
		<p>The derivative sauces of the Espagnole are not, as a rule, suited to entrées garnished with vegetables. Thickened gravy is better.</p>
		<p>The finest adjunct, however, is meat-glaze, which should receive an addition of four <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of butter per pint, and should be slightly acidulated by means of a few drops of lemon juice. This glaze ought to be so light as not to impaste the vegetables.</p>
		<p>Such vegetables as asparagus-heads, peas, French beans, macédoines, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, have a disintegrating action upon the sauces, and this is owing either to their natural moisture or to their leason. As a result of this action the preparation has an unsightly appearance when served upon the diner’s plate.</p>
		<p>With <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce (№71)</a> or buttered meat-glaze this objection does not obtain, seeing that this sauce does not decompose, but combines admirably with the garnish, and lends the latter a certain noticeable mellowness.</p>
		<p>I therefore emphasise this point, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>, that the derivative sauces of the Espagnole and tomato sauces should be exclusively used with such preparations garnished with truffles, cock’s combs and kidneys, quenelles and mushrooms, as “la Financière”, “la Godard”, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h2 class="part">Tournedos</h2>
		<h3 id="1077" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Algerienne</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in clarified butter. Arrange them in the form of a crown on a round dish, andset a croquette of sweet potato, moulded to a round shape, uponeach.</p>
		<p>Around the whole lay some small, emptied, and seasoned half-tomatoes, stewed in oil.</p>
		<h3 id="1078" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Alsaciennes</h3>
		<p>Season and grill the tournedos.</p>
		<p>There should have been prepared in advance as many small tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos.</p>
		<p>Garnish these tartlets with well-drained, braised sauerkraut, and set on each a roundel of the lean of ham, stamped out with an even cutter. Arrange them in the form of a crown on adish, and set a tournedos upon each tartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="1079" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Arlésienne</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter and oil.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, set the tournedos on a dish, and surround them with fried roundels of egg-plant and tossed tomatoes, alternating the two garnishes, and placing roundels of fried onions on the tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1080" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Baltimore</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Set them in the form of a crown on small tartlets garnished by means of maize with cream.</p>
		<p>Upon each tournedos set a roundel of tomato, seasoned and tossed in butter, and a smaller slice of green capsicum, alsotossed in butter, on each roundel of tomato.</p>
		<p>Accompanying sauce: a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1081" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Béarnaise</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and grill them.</p>
		<p>Set them on round crusts, half an inch thick, fried inclarified butter; slightly coat the surface of the tournedos with meat-glaze, and surround them with a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise Sauce</a>.</p>
		<p>In the centre arrange a heap of small potatoes cooked inbutter and kept very soft, and sprinkle thereon a pinch ofchopped parsley.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The tournedos may be simply coated with glaze and the Béarnaise Sauce served separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1082" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Belle-Hélène</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many small croquettes of asparagus-tops, shaped like quoits, as there are tournedos, and fry them while the latterare being cooked. Season the tournedos, and fry them in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Arrange them, in the form of a crown, on a dish; place a croquette on each tournedos, and a large, glazed slice of truffleon each croquette.</p>
		<h3 id="1083" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Bercy</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and coat them lightly with pale meat-glaze.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, and serve a half-melted “<a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#139">Bercy Butter</a>” separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1084" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Bordelaise</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and dish them in the form of a crown.</p>
		<p>Set a large slice of poached marrow on each, and serve a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#32" xml:lang="fr">Sauce Bordelaise</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1085" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Brabançonne</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos.</p>
		<p>Garnish them with very small parboiled Brussels sprouts, stewed in butter; cover these with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay Sauce</a>, and set to glaze a few moments before dishing.</p>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter; set them on the prepared tartlets of sprouts, and surround with a border of small “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2214">Pommes de Terre Fondantes</a>”.</p>
		<h3 id="1086" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Castillane</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos;</li>
				<li>peeled, pressed, and seasoned tomatoes, cooked in butter; these should be in the proportion of one tablespoonful per tartlet;</li>
				<li>rings of onion, fried in oil as for “<a href="#1079">Tournedos Arlésienne</a>”;</li>
				<li>a garnish of one tablespoonful of small French beans, cohered with butter, per tartlet.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown on fried crusts.</p>
		<p>Place a tartlet, garnished with a fondue of tomatoes, on each tournedos; all round arrange a border of the fried roundels of onion, and serve the French beans, either in the middle of the dish or separately in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1087" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Cendrillon</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>>as many fine artichoke-bottoms as there are tournedos;</li>
				<li>a <a href="#">Soubise purée</a>, combined with chopped truffles, and well buttered.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>A few moments before the tournedos are ready, garnish the artichoke-bottoms with the Soubise, and set them to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and set them on the artichoke-bottoms, which should be arranged in acircle round the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1088" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos aux Champignons</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown; drain the butter fromthe sauté-pan; swill the latter with some mushroom cooking-liquor, and add there to a proportional quantity of <a href="#">mushroom sauce</a>. Set to boil for a few minutes, and pour the sauce, with the mushrooms, in the midst of the circle of tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1089" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Chasseur</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them inthe form of a crown.</p>
		<p>Drain the butter away; swill the sauté-pan with white wine, and add to this a quantity of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#33">Chasseur Sauce</a>, which should bein proportion to the number of tournedos.</p>
		<p>Set to boil for a moment or two, and pour the sauce over the tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1090" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Choron</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Set them on crusts fried in butter; round the top of each lay a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#64">Choron sauce (№64)</a>, and in the middle of each set a medium-sized artichoke-bottom garnished with peas or asparagus-heads cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>All round, arrange a border of potatoes, lightly browned inbutter, or heap them in the middle of the crown of tournedos.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The sauce may be served separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1091" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Coligny</h3>
		<ol>
			<li>
				<p>With a preparation of sweet potatoes, made after the manner of “<a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#221">Duchesse potatoes</a>”, make as many small galettes as there are tournedos, and of the same size as the latter.</p>
				<p>Place them on a tray; gild them, and set them to brown inthe oven a few minutes before the tournedos are ready.</p>
			</li>
			<li>Cut some chow-chows in thick, paysanne fashion; par-boil them; stew them in butter, and add thereto an equalquantity of Provençale sauce.</li>
		</ol>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter; dish them in the form of a crown, on the galettes of potato, and cover them with the paysanne of chow-chow.</p>
		<h3 id="1092" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à l’Estragon</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, and on each set either aspray of parboiled tarragon leaves or a lattice composed of the latter. Send separately a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#41">thickened gravy</a> with tarragon.</p>
		<h3 id="1093" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Favorite</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on crusts stamped out with anindented cutter and fried in butter.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos place a round collop of foie gras, a little smaller than the piece of meat; the collop should be seasoned, dredged, and tossed in butter. On each collop of foie gras puta fine, glazed slice of indented truffle. Garnish the centre of the dish with a fine heap of asparagus-tops cohered with butter, or merely set these in small heaps round the tournedos.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a timbale of potatoes (of the size of hazel-nuts) cooked in butter, rolled in pale meat-glaze, and slightly sprinkled with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1094" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Florentine</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>as many subrics of shredded spinach as thereare tournedos; make them of the same size as the latter, andcook them at the same time as the tournedos;</li>
				<li>small, round croquettes of semolina the size of walnuts; these should befried a few minutes before the tournedos are ready.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on the spinach subrics. The croquettes of semolina may bearranged either in the middle or all round.</p>
		<h3 id="1095" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Forestière</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and sauté them. Set them on crusts fried in butter. Surround them with alternate heaps of noodlesand potatoes cut into large dice and tossed in butter.</p>
		<p>The potatoes may also be placed in the midst of the tournedo swith the noodles all round, or vice versa.</p>
		<h3 id="1096" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Gabrielle</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation from the white meat of a chicken and truffles—both cut into dice and cohered with the necessary quan-tity of somewhat light “<a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#221">Duchesse-potatoes</a>” paste.</p>
		<p>With this preparation make as many small quoit-shaped croquettes as there are tournedos, and fry them while the latter are being cooked.</p>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them with oil and butterin equal quantities. Dish them, in the form of a crown, on the prepared croquettes, and on each tournedos set a fineroundel of poached marrow and one slice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Around the tournedos arrange some very small, braised, and well-trimmed lettuces.</p>
		<h3 id="1097" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Henri IV</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and set them on crusts fried in butter. Round the edge of each tournedos lay a thread of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise Sauce</a>, and on top of each an artichoke-bottom garnished with very small potatoes (of the size of hazel-nuts) cooked in butter.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Instead of putting the sauce on the edge of the tour-nedos, it may be served separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1098" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Judic</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish them inthe form of a crown on crusts fried in butter. On each tournedos set a crown of truffle slices, with a cock’s kidney in the centre, and surround with braised, trimmed, and quartered lettuces.</p>
		<h3 id="1099" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Lackmé</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>as many small tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos;</li>
				<li>the same number of grilled, medium-sized mushrooms;</li>
				<li>a garnish of one tablespoonful of broad beans with cream per tartlet.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, each on a tartlet garnished with broad beans, and set a grilled mushroom on each tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1100" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Lesdiguiéres</h3>
		<p>Select onions sufficiently large to admit of placing the tournedos upon them, and let their number equal that of the tournedos.</p>
		<p>Trim their tops, and parboil them almost long enough to cook them.</p>
		<p>Then, by means of a small knife, cut out their insides so that they may form little cases. Fill the latter, two-thirds full, with spinach prepared with cream, cover the spinach with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay Sauce</a>, and set them to glaze in a fierce oven a few moments before the tournedos are ready.</p>
		<p>Grill the tournedos; dish them in the form of a crown, each on an onion.</p>
		<h3 id="1101" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Lili</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them, in the form of a crown, each on a crust of “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2203">Pommes de terre Anna</a>”, stamped out with around, even cutter of the same size as the tournedos.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos set an artichoke-bottom garnished witha roundel of foie gras tossed in butter, and on the foie gras placea slice of truffle. Send, separately, a reduced and well-buttered <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#47">Périgueux sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1102" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Lucullus</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in clarified butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts. Surround them with a garnish consisting of quenelles of chicken forcemeat, cocks’ combs, truffles, and blanched olives, and coat the whole with half-glaze sauce prepared with truffle essence.</p>
		<h3 id="1103" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Madeleine</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">For ten tournedos prepare
			<ol>
				<li>ten timbales of a purée of haricot beans. For these timbales the purée of haricot beans must be cohered per <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> with one egg and three yolks, finished with two <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of butter, put into well-buttered dariole-moulds, and set these to poach fifteen minutes in advance.</li>
				<li>Ten small artichoke-bottoms garnished with reduced <a href="#">Soubise</a>.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in butter; dish them, andsurround them with the timbales and the artichoke-bottoms, alternating the two garnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="1104" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Maréchale</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos; fry them in butter, and dish themupon fried crusts. On each of the tournedos set a large, glazed slice of truffle, and surround them with little heaps of asparagus-heads cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1105" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Marie-Louise</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them, in the form of a crown, upon crusts one-third inch thick, fried in butter. On each tournedos set a small artichoke-bottom, stewed in butter, garnished in the shape of a dome, by means of a piping-bag, with a purée of mushrooms combined with a quart of very reduced <a href="#">Soubise</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1106" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Mascotte</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Have a garnish ready consisting of raw, quartered artichoke-bottoms fried in butter; small, olive-shaped potatoes, also cookedin butter; and olive-shaped truffles.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dish the tournedos in a cocotte with the garnish above described.</p>
		<p>Swill the sauté-pan with white wine; add thereto a little gravy; reduce the whole, strain it into the cocotte, and put thelatter in the front of the oven for a minute or two.</p>
		<h3 id="1107" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Masséna</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos and fry them in butter; dish them onfried crusts of the same size, and, in the middle of each tour-nedos, set a large slice of poached marrow.</p>
		<p>Surround with a row of small artichoke-bottoms, garnished with very stiff <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise Sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1108" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Ménagère</h3>
		<p>Put into an earthenware cocotte the following vegetables, which should be in proportion to the number of tournedos:—Haricot butter or “Princesse” cut into small pieces, minced new carrots, very small new onions, and very fresh peas.</p>
		<p>All these vegetables should be equally apportioned.</p>
		<p>Add salt, butter, and a very little water, for the cooking ofthe vegetables should be effected mainly by the concentrationof steam inside the cocotte, which, for the purpose, shouldtherefore be well closed.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them upon the vegetables in the cocotte at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="1109" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Mexicaine</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>a fondue of peeled and pressed tomatoes, cookedin butter, well reduced, and in the proportion of one table-spoonful per mushroom;</li>
				<li>as many large grilled mushroomsas there are tournedos, while the latter are being fried;</li>
				<li>some grilled or fried capsicums in the proportion of half a one pertournedos.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Season the tournedos, and fry them in oil and butter in equal quantities. Dish them each on a mushroom garnished withthe fondue of tomatoes, and cover them with the grilled or fried capsicums.</p>
		<h3 id="1110" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Mikado</h3>
		<p>Select some fine, rather firm tomatoes—“Mikados”, as they are called—and cut them in two laterally. Squeeze them withthe object of expressing all their juice and seeds; season theminside, and grill them so that they may be ready at the same time as the tournedos.</p>
		<p>Season the latter and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, each on a grilled half-tomato, and garnish the centre of the dish with Japaneseartichokes tossed in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1111" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Mirabeau</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos.</p>
		<p>Lay eight fine strips of anchovy fillets upon each, crossing the former after the manner of a lattice. Cover the edges witha crown of blanched tarragon leaves, and set a large stoned olivein the middle of each tournedos.</p>
		<p>Send some half-melted anchovy butter separately, and allow two-thirds <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of it for each tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1112" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Mireille</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">For ten tournedos, prepare in advance,
			<ol>
				<li>five croustades from the preparation used for “<a href="#">pommes Duchesse</a>”. To make these croustades, fill some buttered dariole-moulds with the preparation referred to, taking care to press it snugly into them. Dip the moulds into tepid water, turn out, treat the mouldings à l’anglaise, fry them, hollow out their centres, and keep them hot.</li>
				<li>A fondue of tomatoes in the proportion of one heapedtablespoonful per croustade.</li>
				<li>Five timbales of <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2255">pilaff rice</a>, made after the same manner as the croustades, and kept hot until required for dishing.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Season the tournedos, fry them in butter, and dish them as soon as they are ready.</p>
		<p>Surround them with timbales of rice, and the croustades garnished with the fondue, the two garnishes to be alternated.</p>
		<h3 id="1113" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Mirette</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many small timbales of “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2234">Pommes de Terre Mirette</a>” as there are tournedos.</p>
		<p>Turn them out on a dish, sprinkle with grated Parmesan and a few drops of melted butter, and set them to glaze a few minutes before the tournedos are ready. Grill the tournedos, dish them in the form of a crown, and set a timbale of pommes Mirette upon each.</p>
		<p>Swill the sauté-pan with white wine; add thereto a little meat-glaze, finish with butter, and pour the resulting sauce over the tournedos.</p>
		<h3 id="1114" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Moëlle</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos and dish them in the form of a crown. Lay on each of them a large slice, of poached marrow, and either surround them with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#67">Bordelaise Sauce</a> or send the latter to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1115" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Montgomery</h3>
		<p>Season the tournedos and fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them upon a <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2138">pancake of spinach</a>, cooked in a tartlet-mould. Deck each tournedos with a rosette of reduced <a href="#">Soubise</a>, made by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, and put a fine slice of truffle in the centre of the rosette.</p>
		<h3 id="1116" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Montpensier</h3>
		<div>Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos;</li>
				<li>a garnish of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, in the proportion of one heaped tablespoonful per tartlet.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them upon fried crusts.</p>
		<p>On each of them set a tartlet garnished with asparagus-heads, with a slice of truffle in the middle.</p>
		<h3 id="1117" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos aux Morilles</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos or fry them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown; in the centre arrange aheap of morels tossed in butter, and besprinkle them moderately with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1118" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Niçoise</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them in the form of acrown.</p>
		<p>In the centre of each tournedos set a small heap, consistingof one half-tablespoonful of peeled, pressed, and concassed tomatoes, tossed in butter, together with a little crushed garlic and chopped tarragon.</p>
		<p>Surround with small heaps of French beans cohered with butter, and other heaps of small potatoes, cooked in butter, alternating the two garnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="1119" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Ninon</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them upon crusts of <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2203">pommes Anna</a>, stamped out with a round fancy-cutter of the same size as the tournedos. On each of the latter set a small patty, garnished with asparagus-heads, cohered with butter and combined with a fine and short julienne of truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1120" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Parmentier</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown.</p>
		<p>In the middle of the dish or round it set a fine heap of potatoes, cut into regular cubes of two-thirds inch side, or raisedby means of an oval, grooved spoon-cutter. The potatoes should be cooked in butter and kept very soft.</p>
		<p>Slightly sprinkle the potatoes with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1521" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Persane</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many green capsicums, stuffed with rice moulded to the shape of balls and braised, and as many grilled half-tomatoes as there are tournedos. Also have some fried slices of banana ready, and allow three for each tournedos.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter and dish them, in the form of a crown, on the grilled half-tomatoes. On each tournedos set a stuffed and braised capsicum.</p>
		<p>In the centre of the dish arrange the fried slices of banana in a nice heap. Send separately to the table a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce</a>, combined with the reduced braising-liquor of the capsicums.</p>
		<h3 id="1122" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Peruvienne</h3>
		<p>Prepare, after the manner described below, as many oxalis roots as there are tournedos.</p>
		<p>Peel the oxalis roots; cut a slice from underneath them, in order to make them stand upright, and hollow them out to form little cases.</p>
		<p>Chop up the pulp extracted from them in the last operation, and add it to a preparation of duxelles, made as for stuffed mushrooms.</p>
		<p>Fill the oxalis cases with this preparation, shaping it above their edges after the manner of a dome; besprinkle with raspingsand oil, and put them in the oven in good time for them to beready at the same time as the tournedos.</p>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, dish them in the form of a crown, and surround them with the oxalis cases.</p>
		<h3 id="1123" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Piémontaise</h3>
		<p>Butter as many tartlet-moulds as there are tournedos; fill them with Rizotto à la Piémontaise, combined with white truffles cut into dice, and keep them hot.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in clarified butter; dish them, in the formof a crown, on the rizotto tartlets, turned out at the last minute.</p>
		<h3 id="1124" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournenos Provençale</h3>
		<div class="inlin-list">For ten tournedos, prepare
			<ol>
				<li>ten medium-sized mush-rooms, stuffed with duxelles, slightly flavoured with garlic, andput in the oven in good time;</li>
				<li><a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2266">ten half-tomatoes à la Provençale</a>.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in equal quantities of butter and oil; dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts, with a half-tomato upon each, and around them set the stuffed mushrooms.</p>
		<h3 id="1125" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Rachel</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, on fried crusts one-third inch thick.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos set a small artichoke-bottom, garnished with a large slice of poached marrow.</p>
		<p>Send a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#32">Bordelaise sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1126" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Rossini</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them, in the form of a crown, upon fried crusts.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos set a round slice of foie gras, just a little smaller than the former; the slices should be seasoned, dredged, and fried in butter.</p>
		<p>On each slice of foie-gras, set a fine slice of truffle.</p>
		<h3 id="1127" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Roumanille</h3>
		<p>Cut the tournedos a little smaller than usual. Season them; fry them in butter, and dish them in a circle on grilled half-tomatoes.</p>
		<p>Coat the tournedos with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#91">Mornay sauce</a>, and set them to glaze quickly.</p>
		<p>In the middle of each tournedos set a large stuffed and poached olive, encircled by a ring consisting of an anchovy fillet.</p>
		<p>In the centre of the dish arrange a fine heap of egg-plant roundels, seasoned with salt and pepper, dredged, fried in oil, and kept very crisp.</p>
		<h3 id="1128" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">-Tournedos Saint Mandé</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them, in the form ofa circle, each on a little cushion of “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2228">Pommes de Terre Macaire</a>”, moulded in ordinary tartlet-moulds.</p>
		<p>In the centre of the dish set a garnish consisting of peas cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1129" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos à la Sarde</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare a garnish of
			<ol>
				<li>hollowed, parboiled, and braisedsections of cucumber, stuffed with duxelles, and gratified;</li>
				<li>small tomatoes, similarly treated;</li>
				<li>small round croquettes of rice flavoured with saffron, thickened with egg-yolks, treateda Vanglaise, and fried.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown.</p>
		<p>Set a croquette of rice upon each tournedos, and framethe whole with the stuffed cucumber cases and the stuffed tomatoes, laid alternately.</p>
		<h3 id="1130" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Soubise</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos and dish them in the form of a crown.</p>
		<p>Serve a light Soubise purée separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1131" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Tivoli</h3>
		<p>For ten tournedos, prepare ten small grilled mushrooms, and allow one half-tomato tossed in butter for each mushroom.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter and dish them, in the form of a crown, upon fried crusts. On each tournedos set a grilled mushroom, garnished with a tossed half-tomato, and all round set some fine “pommes souffles” made in ribbon-form, of around shape, and in the proportion of one potato to each tournedos. .</p>
		<p>Send a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1132" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Tyrolienne</h3>
		<p>For ten tournedos, prepare the following sauce:— Gently cook one chopped onion in butter; add two peeled, pressed, and roughly-chopped tomatoes, salt, pepper, chopped parsley, anda little crushed garlic.</p>
		<p>When the tomatoes are sufficiently cooked, add thereto a few tablespoonfuls of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#49">poivrade sauce</a>, and set to boil for fiveminutes.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter; dish them in the form of acrown, and cover them with the prepared sauce.</p>
		<p>&gt;133—Tournedos Valençay</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter; dish them in the form of acrown, each on a small, round, and flat croquette of noodles and ham, fried just before dishing up.</p>
		<p>Send a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1134" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Valentino</h3>
		<p>Prepare as many pieces of turnips, of the same diameter as the tournedos and one and one-half inch thick, as there are tournedos. Cut them neatly round, stamp them with an even and round cutter, and parboil them until they are almost completely cooked. Hollow them out, by means of a spoon, inside the mark left by the fancy-cutter, and stuff them with a preparation of semolina with Parmesan.</p>
		<p>Put these stuffed pieces of turnip in a sauffipan; add a littlewater, butter, and sugar, and glaze them while finishing theircooking-process.</p>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them in a circle, eachon a stuffed case of turnip.</p>
		<h3 id="1135" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Vert-Pré</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and dish them simply with half-melted butter à la Maître-d’Hôtel upon them.</p>
		<p>Surround them with alternate heaps of water-cress and freshly-fried straw potatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="1136" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Victoria</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle, each on a little round and flat croquette of chicken-meat. On each tournedos set a half-tomato tossed in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1137" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Villaret</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Prepare
			<ol>
				<li>as many tartlet-crusts as there are tournedos;</li>
				<li>a sufficient quantity of very smooth flageolet purée to garnish the tartlets;</li>
				<li>a fine grilled tomato per each tournedos.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and dish them on the garnished tartlets. On each tournedos set a grilled mushroom, the hollow of which should have been filled with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1138" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Villeneuve</h3>
		<p>Fry the tournedos in butter, and dish them in a circle on little quoit-shaped croquettes of chicken-meat, fried at the last moment.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos set a crown of small roundels of tongue and truffle, laid alternately, and a small grooved mushroom in the middle.</p>
		<p>Send a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#71">Châteaubriand sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1139" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Tournedos Villemer</h3>
		<p>Grill the tournedos, and dish them in a circle, each on a fried, hollowed-out crust, garnished with truffled Soubise.</p>
		<p>On each tournedos set a large slice of truffle coated with meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1140" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Filets en Chevreuil</h3>
		<p>For the “en chevreuil” treatment, the meat used is generally cut from the narrowest end of the fillet of beef. The weight of the pieces cut should average about three <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> each.</p>
		<p>After having slightly flattened and trimmed them, lard them with very thin strips of bacon, and marinade them for a few hours in the <a href="06-the-court-bouillons-and-the-marinades.xhtml#169">raw marinade given under №169</a>. When about to cook them, dry them thoroughly, and fry them quickly in hot oil, taking care that the latter be smoking, and therefore hot enough to set the meat and to cause its external moisture to evaporate.</p>
		<p>The fillets may be accompanied by all vegetable purées and highly-seasoned sauces, the most suitable of the latter being the <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#49">Poivrade</a> and the <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#33">Chasseur</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1141" class="formula">Sirloin of Reef <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="fr">(Relevé)</span></h3>
		<p>Sirloin of beef is that part of the bullock’s back reaching from the haunch to the floating ribs, which is equivalent to the saddle in veal and mutton. This piece, however, cannot properly be called “sirloin”, except when it comprises the fillet or undercut, and the upper fillet (<abbr title="French">Fr.</abbr>: <span xml:lang="fr">contrefilet</span>), so-called to distinguish it from the undercut. If this joint be treated whole, it need only be shortened by suppressing the flank, andby sectioning the ligament lying alongside of the chine on the upper fillet, in different places.</p>
		<p>A little fat is left on the undercut, but none whatever mustbe removed from the upper fillet. As a rule, when sirloin of beef is braised, it is cut laterally into pieces weighing from</p>
		<p>six to seven lbs. If it is to be roasted, it is best to keep it whole.</p>
		<p>When served as a relevé, it is braised or roasted, and is kept under done if so desired. Unless it be of excellent quality, however, braised sirloin generally turns out to be dry.</p>
		<p>All garnishes given for “<a href="#1043">Filet de Bœuf</a>” may be served with sirloin; but, as a rule, the bulkiest, such as the “<a href="13-soups.xhtml#607">Richelieu</a>”, the “<a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#235">Provençale</a>”, the “Godard”, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>, are selected.</p>
		<p>The accompanying sauce is that indicated for the abovegarnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="1142" class="formula">Porterhouse-Steak <span class="subtitle">(Grill)</span></h3>
		<p>Porterhouse-steak is a slice from the sirloin of beef, which may be more or less thick. It is cleared of the flank and of the bones of the chine, and it is always grilled.</p>
		<p>It may be served with any of the various garnishes and sauces suited to grills; but it is more often served plain.</p>
		<h3 id="1143" class="formula">Upper Fillet and Ribs of Beef <span class="subtitle">(Relevé)</span></h3>
		<p>The upper fillet is that part of beef which lies between the top of the haunch and the floating ribs, alongside of the chine. It may be treated like the fillet, and all the garnishes suited to the latter may also be applied here.</p>
		<p>If the piece is to be braised, it should be completely boned; if intended for roasting, it is best to retain the bones. In the latter case, the large ligament should be cut at various pointswith the view of preventing distortion, while the bones constituting the spinous process should be broken close to the point where they join the body of the vertebræ, that they may be easily removed when the meat is being carved.</p>
		<p>The upper fillet, especially when it is of good quality, is best roasted.</p>
		<p>Ribs of beef may likewise be braised or roasted.</p>
		<p>In either case, the meat should be properly trimmed and cleared of all the bones of the spinous process.</p>
		<p>This piece should only be used after having been well hung, in order that it may be as tender as possible.</p>
		<h3 id="1144" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Grilled Sirloin Steaks and Ribs of Beef</h3>
		<p>The sirloin steak may be cut either from the upper fillet or the ribs of beef, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, between two rib-bones. In order that its cooking may be regular, it should not weigh more than from two to three <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr></p>
		<p>Ribs of beef may also be grilled, provided they be sufficiently tender.</p>
		<p>They may be braised, too, and in this case they are served with any of the various garnishes given under <a href="#1043">Fillet of Beef</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1145" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf Braisee (Relevé)</h3>
		<p>The piece of beef called rump is the one preferred for boiling and braising. Whatever be the use for which the meat is intended, the weight of the pieces should not be more than six or eight <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> at the most, and they should be cut in the length rather than in the thickness, that the cooking process may be facilitated.</p>
		<p>All the garnishes of braised sirloin of beef are suited to braised pieces of beef.</p>
		<p>Boiled beef is generally accompanied by the vegetables used in its cooking-process, by purées, green or dry vegetables, pastes, macaroni, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="1146" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Bourguignonne</h3>
		<p>Lard the piece of beef, and marinade it for three hours in brandy and red wine. Braise it after the manner described under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#247">№247</a>; moisten first with the wine of the marinade, and, when the latter is reduced, with some veal gravy and one-half pint of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#22">Espagnole sauce</a> per quart of liquid, taking care that the whole moistening reaches the top of the piece of meat. Add a faggot and some mushroom parings; set to boil, andcook gently in the oven.</p>
		<p>When the meat is two-thirds cooked, transfer it to another saucepan, and surround it with mushrooms cut into two or four, according to their size, and tossed in butter; breast of bacon, out into dice, blanched and tossed in butter, and some smallonions half-glazed with butter.</p>
		<p>Strain the sauce through a sieve over the piece of beef and its garnish, and complete the cooking gently.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, put the meat on a dish and glaze it in the oven. Transfer the meat to the dish intended for the table; quickly reduce the sauce if necessary, and pour it over the piece of beef and the garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1147" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Cuiller</h3>
		<p>Select a very square or oval piece of beef, and bear in mind, in selecting it, that it will have to be fashioned to the shape of a case when it has been cooked.</p>
		<p>String it, and braise it after the manner described under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#247">№247</a>, almost entirely covering it with moistening liquor.</p>
		<p>Set it to cook gently; withdraw the piece when the meat is still somewhat firm, and let it cool under slight pressure.</p>
		<p>This done, cut out the meat from the inside; leave a thickness of about half-inch round the sides and on the bottom, and the piece thus emptied should constitute a square or oval case, in accordance with the shape originally adopted.</p>
		<p>Coat the outside of the whole piece with a mixture of beaten eggs and fine bread-crumbs, combined with Parmesan; sprinkle melted butter over it with a brush, and put the case into a sufficiently hot oven to allow of a crust forming round it.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile chop up the meat extracted from the inside of the piece; add thereto a little salted tongue, some braised slices of sweet-bread, and mushrooms; put the whole into a sauté-pan with an Italian or a half-glaze sauce, according to the requirements, and heat this garnish.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—This preparation was quite common in old-fashioned cookery, but though it is still served occasionally, it is now looked upon more as a curiosity than anything else. As a curiosity, therefore, I chose to include it among these recipes; but it does not follow from this that I in any way recommend it.</p>
		<h3 id="1148" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Flamande</h3>
		<p>Lard the piece of beef, and braise it as explained under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#247">№247</a>.</p>
		<div class="inline-class">Meanwhile prepare the following garnish:—
			<ol>
				<li>
					<p>Cut a nice firm cabbage into four, remove the heart, and parboil it for seven or eight minutes. Drain it; cool it; divide up the quarters, leaf by leaf, so as to remove the hard ribs, and seasonwith salt and pepper.</p>
					<p>Mould them to the shape of balls by pressing them in the corner of a towel into balls weighing about three <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> each, or simply put them into a saucepan with a quartered carrot, anonion stuck with a clove, a faggot, six <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of blanched breast of pork, and a little raw sausage with garlic, which latter must be withdrawn after cooking has gone on for one and one-half hours.</p>
					<p>Moisten the cabbage with just sufficient consommé to coverit; add a few tablespoonfuls of good stock-fat; set to boil, andcook gently in the oven for one and one-half hours.</p>
				</li>
				<li>Cut the required quantity of carrots and turnips to theshape of olives; cook them in consommé, and reduce the latterfor the purpose of glazing.</li>
				<li>Prepare some potatoes à l’anglaise.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<p>Set the piece of beef on a dish large enough to allow of the former being surrounded with the moulded or plainly-heaped cabbages, the glazed carrots and turnips, and the potatoes à l’anglaise. The last two vegetables should be set in alternate heaps with the cabbages and the bacon (cut into small rectangles) and the sausage (cut into roundels) should be distributed all round.</p>
		<p>Serve separately the gravy of the piece of beef, cleared of all grease, reduced to a half-glaze and strained.</p>
		<h3 id="1149" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Mode Chaude</h3>
		<p>Lard the piece of beef, which should not, if possible, weigh more than from four to five <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> The strips of bacon used for larding ought to have been prepared fifteen or twenty minutes in advance, marinaded in a few tablespoonfuls of brandy, and sprinkled with parsley just before being used.</p>
		<p>Rub the piece with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and put it into a basin with one bottle of red wine and one-fifth pint of brandy, and set it to marinade for four or five hours, taking care to turn it over from time to time.</p>
		<p>Then set it to braise after the manner described under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#247">№247</a>; add its marinade to the moistening, and surround it with three small, boned, blanched, and strung calf’s feet.</p>
		<p>When the cooking is three-quarters done, transfer the piece of beef to another saucepan, and surround it with the following garnish:—</p>
		<ol>
			<li>About one-quarter <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of carrots turned to the shape ofelongated olives, and already two-thirds cooked.</li>
			<li>Small onions coloured in two-thirds <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of butter.</li>
			<li>The calf’s feet cut into small, square, or rectangular pieces.</li>
		</ol>
		<p>Strain the braising-liquor over the whole, and complete the cooking gently. When about to serve, either glaze the piece of beef, or dish it plain; coat it lightly with sauce, and send what remains of the latter, with the garnish, in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1150" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Mode Froide</h3>
		<p>Bœuf à la mode is very rarely prepared specially for cold dishing, the remains of a fine piece being generally used forthat purpose. The piece of meat must first be well trimmed. If the quantity of sauce do not seem enough, or if the sauce itself seem too stiff, add a third of its volume of aspic jelly to it.</p>
		<p>For moulding, take a terrine, a pâté, a mould, or other utensil capable of holding the piece of meat, its garnish, and its sauce. Deck the bottom of the utensil in any suitable way with thecarrots and the onions, and surround the piece with what remains of the latter and the dice of calf’s foot.</p>
		<p>Add the sauce, combined with the jelly, after having passed it through a strainer, and put the whole in the cool for a few hours. Turn out just before serving, and surround with very light, chopped jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1151" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pièce de Bœuf à la Noailles</h3>
		<p>Lard the piece of beef, and marinade it in brandy and red wine.</p>
		<p>This done, dry it thoroughly, and brown it evenly in butter all over; moisten it with its marinade and an equal quantity of veal gravy, and set to cook gently.</p>
		<p>When the meat is half-cooked, surround it with two <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of minced onions, tossed in butter, and three <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of rice. Complete the cooking of the piece with onions and rice.</p>
		<p>Now withdraw the piece of beef, and quickly rub the onions and the rice through tammy. Reduce this Soubise with rice for a few moments.</p>
		<p>Neatly trim the piece of beef; cut it into even slices; reconstruct it on a dish, and between each slice pour a tablespoonful of Soubise purée.</p>
		<p>Cover the reconstructed piece of beef with the remainder of the Soubise; sprinkle the surface with two tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs fried in butter, and some melted butter, and putthe whole in the oven, that the gratin may form speedily.</p>
		<h3 id="1152" class="formula">The Rump</h3>
		<h4 class="subtitle">Rumpsteak and Beefsteak.</h4>
		<p>The rump is that portion of the sirloin of beef which touches the top of the haunch.</p>
		<p>It may be braised, but it is more often grilled in slices from one inch to one and one-half inches thick, which are called “rumpsteaks.”</p>
		<p>With reference to this subject, it is as well to point out that the term “Beefsteak”, so hackneyed in France, is scarcely used in England, owing to its want of precision.</p>
		<p>In France, beefsteak is either a cut from the fillet, the upper-fillet, or the rump, according to the standing of the catering-house which supplies it. But the nature of the piece cannot very well be mistaken, inasmuch as the term beefsteak, which designates it, is generally followed by other French words which reveal its origin, whereas in England the term “Beefsteak” does not convey any particular meaning.</p>
		<p>Rumpsteak is either grilled or sautéd, but whatever be themethod of cooking it, it is generally served plain.</p>
		<p>All garnishes suited to fillets, however, may be served with it, as also the various butters and sauces generally used with grills.</p>
		<h3 id="1153" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Langue de Bœuf</h3>
		<p>Ox tongue is served fresh or salted, but, even when it is to be served fresh, it is all the better for having been put in salt a few days previously. In order to salt it, put it into a special brine, as explained under <a href="06-the-court-bouillons-and-the-marinades.xhtml#172">№172</a>. When salted, it is cooked in boiling water; when fresh, it is braised exactly after the manner of any other piece of meat.</p>
		<p>Ox tongue may be served with almost all the garnishes suited to relevés of fillet of beef, but more particularly with the following:—Bourgeoise; Flamande; Milanaise; Noodles or Macaroni with cream, cheese or tomatoes; and all vegetable purées.</p>
		<p>The most suitable sauces are:—<a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#44">Madeira sauce</a>, <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#48">Piquante sauce</a>, <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#29">Tomato sauce</a>, or their derivatives.</p>
		<h3 id="1154" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Langue de Bœuf Choucroute</h3>
		<div class="inline-list">Braise the tongue as described under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#247">№247</a>, and glaze it at the last moment. Dish it, and send to the table separately
			<ol>
				<li>a timbale of well-braised sauerkraut;</li>
				<li>a timbale of potato purée;</li>
				<li>a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#44">Madeira sauce</a>, combined with the braising-liquor of the tongue, cleared of all grease, and reduced.</li>
			</ol>
		</div>
		<h3 id="1155" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Langue de Bœuf Bourgeoise</h3>
		<p>Braise the tongue in the usual way.</p>
		<p>When it is two-thirds cooked, surround it with carrots fashioned to the shape of olives and already two-thirds cooked, and small onions browned in butter.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking gently, and for the rest of the operation, proceed as for “<a href="#1149">Pièce de Bœuf à la Mode Chaude</a>”.</p>
		<h3 id="1156" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Langue de Bœuf aux Fèves</h3>
		<p>Tongue intended for this preparation should be put in salt a few days in advance.</p>
		<p>Boil it in the usual way and very gently; glaze it whenabout to serve, and dish it. Send to the table separately (1) atimbale of very fresh, skinned, broad beans, cooked in saltedwater with a spray of savory, and cohered with butter at thelast moment.</p>
		<p>(2) A Madeira sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1157" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LANGUE de Bœuf FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Braise the tongue, and glaze it at the last moment. Sur-round it with the garnish “à la Flamande” given under the beef</p>
		<p>recipe of that name, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, braised cabbages, glazed carrots andturnips, potatoes a Vanglaise, rectangles of lean bacon, androundels of sausage.</p>
		<h3 id="1158" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LANGUES de B(EUF FROIDES</h3>
		<p>Ox tongues intended for cold dishing should be kept inbrine (№172) for eight or ten days. When about to use them, put them to soak in cold water for a few hours, and then cookthem plainly in water for three hours.</p>
		<p>This done, withdraw them from their cooking-liquor; skinthem; cover them with buttered paper, and let them cool. Theobject of the paper is to keep off the air, the tendency of whichis to blacken the surface of the meat.</p>
		<p>When quite cool, coat the tongues with a glaze composed ofcne-half lb. of gelatine dissolved in one pint of water; the latteris given a scarlet tint by means of carmine and caramel.</p>
		<p>Cold ox tongues are dished amidst aspic jelly dice and curled-leaf parsley.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The gelatine glaze described above will be found agreat improvement upon the coating of reddened gold-beaters’skin.</p>
		<p>OX TAILS.</p>
		<p>Ox tails, sectioned or unsectioned, are usually braised, andonly the thicker half of the caudal appendage is ever used.</p>
		<h3 id="1159" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUEUE de Bœuf A d’AUVERGNATE</h3>
		<p>Section the tail, and braise it in white wine, after recipeNo. 247.</p>
		<p>Prepare a garnish of rectangles of lean bacon, large chestnutscooked in consommé and glazed, and small onions cooked inbutter.</p>
		<p>Put the sections of the tail in an earthenware cocotte withthe garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1160" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUEUE de Bœuf à la CAVOUR</h3>
		<p>Section the tail, and braise it in a moistening two-thirds ofwhich is brown stock and one-third white wine. It is well forthe moistening to be somewhat abundant. Set to cook verygently, until the meat falls from the bones, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, for a matter ofabout four and one-half or five hours.</p>
		<p>This done, dish the sections of the tail in a cocotte; addsome small, cooked mushrooms; clear the cooking-liquor ofgrease; reduce it, and thicken it slightly with fecula. Strain</p>
		<p>this thickened cooking-liquor over the sections of the tail andthe mushrooms, and set to boil very gently for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve thus in the cocotte set on a dish, and send a timbaleof chestnut purée to the table at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1161" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUEUE de Bœuf FARCIE</h3>
		<p>Choose a large ox tail, and bone it carefully without burst-ing it.</p>
		<p>Lay it on a napkin, and stuff it with a forcemeat consistingof the following ingredients:—Three-quarters lb. of very leanbeef and one-half lb. of chopped fat bacon, the two mixed withfour oz. of bread-crumbs soaked in milk and pressed; two wholeeggs; three oz. of truffle peel; one-half oz. of salt, a pinch ofpepper, and a very little spice.</p>
		<p>Sew up the tail, cover it with a piece of linen after themanner of a galantine, and cook it gently for three hours in avery light stock with vegetables as for boiled beef.</p>
		<p>At the end of the three hours take it out of the linen; put itinto a sautepan, the bottom of which should be garnished asfor a braising; add a little of the cooking-liquor of the tail, andcomplete the cooking, basting often the while. Take care tobaste more frequently towards the close of the operation with theview of properly glazing the meat.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dish it, after having removed allstring, and lightly coat the bottom of the dish with a sauceconsisting of the cooking-liquor, reduced and thickened witharrow-root. Send what remains of the cooking-liquor in asauceboat.</p>
		<p>Serve separately either a purée, a garnish of braised vege-tables, or one of the sauces suited to pieces of beef.</p>
		<h3 id="1162" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUEUE de BGEUF GRILLEE</h3>
		<p>Cut the tail into sections twice the usual length, and cookthese in a stewpan for five hours with salted water and aromatics.</p>
		<p>Drain the sections; dry them well; dip them in meltedbutter, and roll them in very fine bread-crumbs. Sprinkle withmelted butter, and set to grill gently.</p>
		<p>Grilled ox tail may be served with any vegetable purée. Anordinary Soubise, or one prepared la Noailles,” as ex-plained under the piece of beef of that name, also suits verywell.</p>
		<p>In any case, the Soubise should be sufficiently thick.</p>
		<p>Such sauces as à la <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#37">Diable</a>, <a href="#">Hachée</a>, <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#48">Piquante</a>, <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#52">Robert</a>, <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#29">Tomato</a>, <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#40">Italienne</a>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>, are also suited to grilled ox tail.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—When the adjunct to grilled ox tail is a highly-</p>
		<p>c c</p>
		<p>386 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>seasoned sauce, the sections should first be covered with a coatof mustard, then dipped in melted butter, and finally rolled inbread-crumbs.</p>
		<h3 id="1163" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUEUE de Bœuf en HOCHEPOT</h3>
		<p>Cut the tail into sections, and put these into a stewpan ofconvenient size, with two pig’s trotters, each of which mustbe cut into four or five pieces, and one pig’s ear. Cover thewhole with cold water; add salt to the extent of one-third oz.per quart of the liquid; set to boil; skim, and leave to cookgently for two hours.</p>
		<p>This done, add one small cabbage, cut into quarters, par-boiled and cooled; ten small onions; five oz. of carrots, and thesame weight of turnips, cut to the shape of large, garlic cloves.Set the whole to cook for a further two hours at least.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dish the sections of tail in a circle;put the vegetable garnish in the centre, and surround the latterwith the pig’s ear cut into small, narrow strips, and ten grilledchipolata sausages.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a timbale of potatoes cooked a I’anglaise.</p>
		<p>Various Preparations of Beef.</p>
		<h3 id="1164" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STEWED STEAKS and ONIONS</h3>
		<p>Select some steaks one and one-third inches thick; fry themin butter on both sides, and set them to braise in short moisten-ing, with a sufficient quantity of quartered and browned onionsto constitute an abundant garnish.</p>
		<p>Leave the whole to cook gently for three hours.</p>
		<p>Dish the steak, and surround it with the onions and thebraising-liquor cleared of all grease and reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="1165" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SALT BEEF</h3>
		<p>The pieces of beef chiefly selected for salting are brisket, silver side, and round of beef, and these are always boiled fora more or less lengthy period, according to their size.</p>
		<p>To the cooking-liquor is added a copious garnish of carrotsand turnips. These are served with the meat, together with asauceboat of cooking-liquor and a suet dumpling, prepared asfollows: —</p>
		<h3 id="1166" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUET DUMPLING</h3>
		<p>Finely chop up some suet; add to it an equal quantity offlour and about one-quarter oz. of salt per lb. of suet and flour.Moisten with just enough water to make a thick paste of</p>
		<p>about the same consistence as brioche-paste. Cut this pasteinto portions weighing about one oz., and roll them into smallballs. Put the latter in a sauté-pan containing some boilingbeef cooking-liquor, which need not have been cleared of grease, and let them poach for one and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>Now drain the dumplings, and arrange them around themeat with the garnish of carrots and turnips, as explained above.</p>
		<h3 id="1167" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COLD SALT BEEP</h3>
		<p>Salt beef, served cold, constitutes an excellent sideboard dishfor luncheons.</p>
		<p>It need only be neatly trimmed all round, care being takento preserve all the fat so highly esteemed by some. Indeed, apiece of cold salt fat is sometimes added to that already existingaround and in the meat, in which case the extra quantity isfixed to the beef by means of a hatelet.</p>
		<h3 id="1168" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PRESSED BEEF</h3>
		<p>Salt beef also serves in the preparation of “Pressed Beef,”but, for this purpose, the breast is generally used.</p>
		<p>After having thoroughly cooked the salted breast of beef inaccordance with the procedure indicated for salt beef, cut it intolarge pieces of the same size as the moulds into which the meatis going to be pressed. Lay the pieces of beef one on top ofanother in a square or rectangular mould, and cover with athick board, cut flush with the inside edge of the mopld. Nowapply pressure, either by means of a strong press or heavyweight, and leave the beef to cool under the applied pressure.</p>
		<p>When the meat is quite cold, turn it out; trim it carefullyon all sides, and glaze it, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, cover it entirely with a coatingof rather firm, clarified gelatine, brought by means of carmineend caramel to a nice red-brown colour.</p>
		<h3 id="1169" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STEAK and KIDNEY PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Cut three lbs. of very lean beef into slices one-third inchthick.</p>
		<p>Season these slices with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and adda little chopped onion and parsley. Take a pudding-basin;line it with a firm layer of suet-dough (№1166), and garnishthe bottom and sides of the basin with the slices of beef.</p>
		<p>In the middle put one lb. of kidney of beef, of veal, or ofmutton, cut up as for tossing, and seasoned like the steaks.Moisten with just sufficient water to cover.</p>
		<p>Now close up the basin with a layer of the same paste asthat used in lining, pinching it with the latter, all round, thatit may adhere thoroughly. In order to effect this with greater</p>
		<p>C C 2</p>
		<p>certainty, the respective edges of the two layers of paste maybe moistened.</p>
		<p>This done, cover the basin with a buttered and dredgednapkin, fastened on by means of string tied round just beneaththe lip of the utensil. Cook for five hours, either in boilingwater or in steam, and, after having removed the napkin, servethe pudding as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1170" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STEAK PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Make some rather stiff paste with two lbs. of flour, one andone-quarter lbs. of the chopped fat of kidney of beef, a pinchof salt, and one-quarter pint of water.</p>
		<p>With the rolling-pin, roll out this paste to a round layerone-quarter inch thick, and put it into a buttered dome-mouldor pudding-basin.</p>
		<p>Cut the lean beef into pieces, and season them, exactly asfor steak and kidney pudding. Fill up the basin with thepieces arranged in layers; moisten with just enough water tocover, and close up the basin with a layer of the same pasteas that used for its lining.</p>
		<p>Carefully join the edges of the two layers of paste, assistingthe operation with a little moisture applied by means of a brush;swathe the basin in a buttered pudding-cloth, and fasten thelatter firmly with string.</p>
		<p>Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water or a steamer, and leave it to cook for three hours if the beef has been cutfrom the fillet, and for four hours if cut from any other piece.</p>
		<p>At the end of the required time take the pudding out of thesaucepan and remove the cloth.</p>
		<p>Dish on a folded napkin.</p>
		<p>II7,_STEAK and oyster pudding</p>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for steak and kidney pudding, but takeonly two lbs. of beef, and replace the odd pound by forty fineoysters.</p>
		<h3 id="1172" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Daube Chaude à la Provençale</h3>
		<p>Cut four lbs. of shoulder or cushion of beef into cubesweighing about four oz. each. Lard each piece of meat witha strip of bacon two inches long by one-half inch wide, andput the cubes or pieces into a bowl with salt, pepper, a verylittle spice, five or six tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and a glassof red wine. Leave to marinade for two or three hours, andtoss the pieces, from time to time, in the marinading liquor, inorder that each may be well saturated with it. Heat six oz. of</p>
		<p>grated bacon in an earthenware stewpan, and brown thereintwelve small onions, fifteen carrots in the shape of olives, twosticks of celery cut into pieces of the same size as the carrots, and four cloves of garlic. Add the marinaded pieces of meat, which should have been properly dried; fry the whole, meatand vegetables, for a further seven or eight minutes, andmoisten with the marinade and two glasses more of red wine.</p>
		<p>Complete with one-half lb. of fresh bacon rind, blanched andcut into square pieces of two-thirds inch side; a faggot madeup of parsley stalks, thyme, bay, and, in the centre, a smallpiece of dry lemon rind. Set to boil, completely close the stew-pan, and leave to cook in a moderate oven for six or seven hours.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, remove the faggot, clear all greasefrom the gravy, and dish in a hot timbale, or serve the “daube”in the stewpan itself.</p>
		<h3 id="1173" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Daube à la Provençale Froide</h3>
		<p>A daube is rarely prepared specially for cold dishing; gene-rally the remains of one already served hot are used.</p>
		<p>Take the pieces, one by one, with a fork, and place them ina terrine a ■pâté with the carrots, onions, and squares of baconrind, which have remained almost untouched.</p>
		<p>Strain the gravy over them through an ordinary strainer, pressing lightly the while, and leave to cool.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out the daube on a cold dish, andsurround with chopped aspic jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1174" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARBONNADES à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Cut three lbs. of lean shoulder or cushion of beef into thin, short slices. Season the latter with salt and pepper, and brownthem quickly on both sides in stock fat. At the same time tossone and one-quarter lbs. of minced onions in butter, until theyare well browned.</p>
		<p>Put the slices of beef and the onions in alternate layers intoa saucepan, and in their midst place a faggot.</p>
		<p>Drain the grease from the sauté-pan in which the slices werefried; swill with one and one-half pints of beer (old Lambic inpreference); add the same quantity of brown stock, thicken withfour oz. of brown roux; finish the seasoning with one and one-half oz. of powdered sugar; set to boil, stirring the while, andstrain this sauce over the slices of beef and the onions.</p>
		<p>Cover and cook gently in the oven for from two and one-halfto three hours.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Carbonades are served thus, mingled with theonions; but they may also be dished in a timbale and covered</p>
		<p>with a Soubise consisting of the onion and the sauce rubbedthrough tammy.</p>
		<h3 id="1175" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EMINCE de B(EUF</h3>
		<p>Cold roast or boiled meats may be warmed up in manydifferent ways.</p>
		<p>In their preparation, however, the reader should follow onerule, the non-observance of which invariably leads to failure.</p>
		<p>Whatever the meat be, it should first be cut into the thinnestpossible slices; set on a dish, and covered with a boiling sauceor garnish, which should effect its warming up. If the meatboil in the sauce or garnish, it toughens, and this, above all, should be avoided when roast meat is used.</p>
		<p>Sauces suited to Eminces are the Bordelaise, the Piquante, the Italienne, the Chasseur, the Poivrade, the Périgueux, and the Tomato.</p>
		<h3 id="1176" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EMINCE de Bœuf en MIROTON</h3>
		<p>For one lb. of beef mince two fine onions somewhat finely, and toss them in butter until they are evenly and well gilded.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with one-half tablespoonful of flour; set to cookfor a moment, and then moisten with one-half glassful of whitewine and one-half pint of consommé; season with a pinch ofpepper; boil, and leave to cook gently for seven or eight minutes.</p>
		<p>The flour may be dispensed with, but, in this case, the whitewine is reduced to two-thirds, one-half pint of half-glaze isadded, and the whole is cooked for seven or eight minutes.</p>
		<p>Cut the beef into very thin slices, and set these on a dish.</p>
		<p>A minute before serving, add a few drops of vinegar to theonions; cover the meat with the onions and the sauce; standthe dish for a moment on the hob, and sprinkle it slightlywith chopped parsley.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—When the miroton is prepared with boiled beef, theslices should be cut somewhat more thickly, and left to simmergently in the sauce for as long as possble—an hour or more ifnecessary.</p>
		<p>The miroton is then dished with some minced gherkins, sprinkled with raspings, and placed in the oven at the lastmoment for the gratin to form.</p>
		<p>, ,77—GOULASH de Bœuf à la HONGROISE</p>
		<p>Cut three lbs. of ribs or shoulder of beef into squares weigh-ing about three oz. each. Fry these pieces on a moderate firein four oz. of lard, together with one-half lb. of onions cut intolarge dice, until the latter acquire a nice, even, golden colour.</p>
				<p>Season with one-third oz. of salt and the necessary quantity ofpaprika; add one and one-quarter lbs. of peeled, pressed, andquartered tomatoes, and one-sixth pint of water.</p>
		<p>Cover and cook in the oven for one and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>This done, add one-third pint of water and one and one-quarter lbs. of quartered potatoes to the Goulash.</p>
		<p>Continue the cooking in the oven, basting often the while, and do not stop the operation until the moistening-liquor isentirely reduced. When about to serve, dish the Goulash ina timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1178" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HACHIS de BGEUF A d’AMERICAINE</h3>
		<p>Cut the meat into small cubes.</p>
		<p>Also cut into dice the same weight of potatoes as of meat.</p>
		<p>Season these potatoes and toss them in butter.</p>
		<p>This done, put half their quantity into a saucepan with themeat dice, and cohere the whole with a few tablespoonfuls oftomato sauce and reduced veal gravy. Heat without allowingto boil; dish in a hot timbale; distribute the remainder of thepotatoes, which should be crisply fried, over the hash, andsprinkle with a pinch of freshly-chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1179" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HACHIS de Bœuf PARMENTIER</h3>
		<p>Bake some fine potatoes in the oven.</p>
		<p>The moment they are done, slice off a piece of their bakedshell, and remove the pulp from their insides by means of aspoon handle.</p>
		<p>Crush this pulp with a fork, and toss it in butter as for “<a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2228">Pommes de Terre Macaire</a>”. Then add to it as much beefin dice as there is pulp; two tablespoonfuls of chopped onioncooked in butter per lb. of the preparation; a pinch of choppedparsley, and a few drops of vinegar. Now toss the wholetogether for a few minutes, and then fill the empty potato shellswith the preparation.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with Lyonnaise sauce rubbed through tammy, andadd as much of it as the hash will absorb.</p>
		<p>Replace the portion of shell cut off at the first, that thepotatoes may seem untouched; arrange them on a dish, and putthe latter in the oven for ten minutes. When about to serve, dish the stuffed potatoes on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1180" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TRIPES à la MODE de CAEN</h3>
		<p>In the preparation of this culinary speciality of Normandy, a very common mistake is often made; to wit, that of usingcalves’ feet instead of those of the ox, an innovation to whichthere are many objections.</p>
		<p>In the first place, the gravy of the tripe cannot absorb somuch gelatine, and is indifferently thickened in consequence;secondly, since calves’ feet are much more tender than thoseof the ox, the former get boiled to shreds before the cooking ofthe tripe has been properly effected. This supposed improve-ment on the old method is thus seen to actually run counter tothe end in view; but means there are, nevertheless, wherebythose who insist upon the use of calves’ feet may be satisfied.It is only necessary to braise a number of calves’ feet before-hand, the number being in proportion to the quantity of tripe, and to add these to the latter a quarter of an hour beforeserving.</p>
		<p>Another mistake which obtains somewhat widely in respectof this dish is the serving of it in a silver utensil—a methodquite as unreasonable as that of serving a Chaudfroid in anearthenware dish.</p>
		<p>By virtue of its simplicity, tripe should be served in eithersandstone or special earthenware stewpans, wherein heat is bestretained; and the operator should rather direct his attention tothe serving of tripe as hot as possible, than to this or thatfanciful method of dishing, which really has no raison d’etrein this case.</p>
		<p>The Preparation of Tripe.—Under the head of “beef tripe”are understood: (i) The feet; (2) tripe proper, which comprisesthe Paunch, the Honey-comb Bag, the Manyplies, and theReed.</p>
		<p>First soak the tripe in cold water for some considerabletime; then cut it into squares of two inches side.</p>
		<p>For the seasoning and flavouring of tripe, complete in allits parts, take: (Seasoning) one-quarter oz. of salt and a pinchof pepper per lb.; (flavouring) four lbs. of onions stuck withfour cloves; three lbs. of carrots; one faggot, comprising twolbs. of leeks, one-third lb. of parsley stalks, a sprig of thyme, and a bay leaf.</p>
		<p>Moisten with two quarts of good cider (not likely to turnblack while cooking, otherwise use water); one-half pint ofbrandy or liqueur-cider.</p>
		<p>The quantity of the moistening-liquor largely depends uponthe shape of the utensil; a little less will be needed in the caseof a narrow one, and a little more in the case of a wide one.</p>
		<p>In any case, however, the tripe should be just covered.</p>
		<p>Treatment and Cooking-process.—Take a stewpan or brais-ing-pan, just large enough to hold the tripe and the garnish.</p>
		<p>On the bottom of this lay carrots, onions, seasoning, andthe four ox feet, bound and cut into fair-sized pieces.</p>
		<p>Add the tripe, placing the faggot in its midst; upon thetripe lay the bones of the feet, broken lengthwise; some slicesof beef-fat, well soaked in cold water; and, finally, themoistening.</p>
		<p>Cover the whole with a kind of galette of paste, consistingof flour mixed with hot water and kept somewhat stiff, and fix the paste well on to the edges of the utensil.</p>
		<p>Place in the oven, and, when about two hours have elapsedand the paste is well baked, close the utensil with its own cover.</p>
		<p>In a regular and moderate oven, allow about ten hours forthe cooking.</p>
		<p>The Dishing and Serving.—After taking the tripe out ofthe oven, remove the cover of paste, the bones, the fat, thecarrots, the onions, and the faggot, and by means of a slicewithdraw the pieces of tripe and set them in the special earthen-ware bowls, taking care to distribute the pieces, coming fromdifferent portions of tripe, in such wise as to meet the demandsor fancies of the various consumers.</p>
		<p>When the tripe has been transferred to the bowls, clear thegravy of all grease, and dole it out evenly among the numberof receptacles. It is best, now, to put the latter in a bain-marie, for they must only be served quite hot, on chafers orotherwise.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—(i) To make the dish to perfection, the tripe shouldbe put into special earthenware pots (wherein the heat is moreeffectively concentrated), and cooked in a baker’s or pastry-cook’s oven.</p>
		<p>I dealt with the alternative of cooking tripe in a stewpanin order to make provision for those who can avail themselvesof neither special pots nor a baker’s oven.</p>
		<p>(2) The measures I prescribe, namely, those of first layingthe slices of beef-fat upon the tripe, and then covering thewhole with a lid of paste, are intended to stop a too rapidevaporation of the liquid—a contingency that must be guardedagainst, more particularly in a kitchen oven—and to preservethe whiteness of the tripe.</p>
		<p>The cover of paste would be quite useless if a baker’s ovenwere available, for the latter not only ensures perfectly regularheat, but also wanes regularly.</p>
		<p>2. VEAL.</p>
		<p>With the exception of veal sweetbreads, it cannot be deniedthat this meat is considerably less popular in England thanabroad, nor does it ever seem to appear on important menus inthis country.</p>
		<p>Of course, and the fact must not be lost sight of, Englishveal is admittedly inferior in quality—badly fattened, andmostly red, soft, and dry. Probably, therefore, its unpopularitymay be the indirect cause of its poor quality; for it is incon-ceivable that a country so famous for cattle-rearing as Englandundoubtedly is could not produce veal equal in quality to itsbeef, mutton, and pork, if rearers thought it worth their whileto perfect that special branch of their business. Be this as itmay, almost all the best veal consumed in England comes fromthe Continent, principally from France, Belgium, and Holland;and, in this respect, I not only refer to the larger joints, butto those odd parts such as the head, the liver, the sweetbreads,&amp;c., the continental quality of which is likewise very superiorto that of the English produce.</p>
		<h3 id="1181" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU (Relev&lt;5)</h3>
		<p>Saddle of veal is the only Relev£ of this meat which issometimes allowed to appear on an important menu, and it is, in fact, a splendid and succulent joint.</p>
		<p>It may be roasted, but I should urge the adoption of thebraising treatment, not only as a precaution against dryness, but because of the fine stock yielded by the operation.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the method of cooking, trim the saddle on oneside, flush with the bones of the pelvis, and up to the firstribs on the other side. Then cut out the kidneys, leaving athick layer of fat on the under fillets or “filets mignons”;pare the flank on either side, in such wise that what is left ofit, when drawn under the saddle on either side, may just coverthe fillets above referred to. This flank should only be drawnover the fillets after the inside of the joint has been salted;then cover the top surface of the joint with slices of bacon, and tie round with string, five or six times, that the baconand the flank may not shift.</p>
		<p>When the saddle is intended for only a small number ofpeople, half of it may be used at a time; that is to say, onefillet, in which case the joint may be cut in two, lengthwise.</p>
		<p>The procedure for braising this piece is in pursuance of thedirections given under “The Braising of White Meats” (№248).</p>
		<p>The process of braising, whether it be in respect of thesaddle or other veal Relevés, such as the cushion, the loin, theneck, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>, demands particular care, must be accompanied byfrequent basting, and should always be carried on with shortmoistening.</p>
		<h3 id="1182" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la CHARTREUSE</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle, and glaze it at the last moment, after</p>
		<p>having removed the slices of bacon. Set it on a long dish, and, at each end of the latter, place a chartreuse of vegetables.</p>
		<p>Round the joint put a few tablespoonfuls of the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced, and well-strained; andserve what remains in a sauceboat.</p>
		<p>Chartreuses of Vegetables.—Take two dome- or Charlotte-moulds, capable of holding two-thirds of a quart. Butter themliberally; line them with buttered paper, and on the latter, overthe bottom and sides of the utensil, lay carrots, turnips, peas, and French beans; each of which vegetables should be cookedin a way suited to its nature. This operation, which is some-what finicking, may either be effected on the plan of a draught-board, or the different vegetables may be superposed in alter-nate row’s of varying colours.</p>
		<p>When the moulds are garnished in this way, spread thereon, over the vegetables, a layer of forcemeat softened w’ith beatenwhite of egg; the object of this measure is to keep the vegetabledecoration in position, and this is effected by the poaching ofthe forcemeat before the chartreuse is filled with ifs garnish.</p>
		<p>This done, fill the moulds to within one-third inch of theirbrims with a Macedoine of vegetables cohered by means ofstiff Bechamel and cream, and cover with a layer of forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Set these chartreuses to poach thirty-five minutes beforeserving, and take care to let them rest for five minutes beforeunmoulding them on either side of the saddle.</p>
		<h3 id="1183" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la METTERNICH</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle, and, when it is ready, put it on a dish.</p>
		<p>Now draw a line within one-half inch of its extreme edge oneither side and end, pressing the point of a small knife alongthe meat in so doing.</p>
		<p>Proceed in the same way on either side of the chine, andremove the fillets from the joint, severing them from the bonewith care.</p>
		<p>Cut the fillets into regular collops, keeping the knife some-what at a slant.</p>
		<p>In the double cavity left by the fillets spread a few table-spoonfuls of Bechamel with paprika; return the colloped fillets</p>
		<p>to their respective places in the joint, reconstructing them insuch wise as to make them appear untouched; and betweenthe collops pour one-half tablespoonful of Bechamel and laytwo slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>This done, cover the whole surface of the joint withBechamel sauce with paprika, and set to glaze quickly at thesalamander. Now, with a large slice, carefully transfer thesaddle to a dish.</p>
		<p>Serve separately (i) the braising-liquor of the saddle, clearedof all grease and reduced; (2) a timbale of <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2255">pilaff rice</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1184" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la NELSON</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle. When it is ready, remove the fillets, proceeding exactly as described under “Selle à la Metternich,”and cut the fillets in a similar manner.</p>
		<p>In the cavities left by the fillets spread a few tablespoonfulsof Soubise; return the colloped fillets to their place, and, between the collops, place a thin slice of ham, of the same sizeand shape as the adjacent piece of meat, and a little Soubisesauce.</p>
		<p>Having reconstructed the joint, cover its surface with alayer, about one inch thick, of “Soufflé au Parmesan,” com-bined with one quart of truffle purge.</p>
		<p>Bind the joint with a strong band of buttered paper, for thepurpose of holding in the soufflé, and set it to cook in amoderate oven for fifteen minutes. After having taken thesaddle out of the oven, remove the paper band, and send it tothe table without changing the dish.</p>
		<p>Send the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced andstrained, to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1185" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU A d’ORIENTALE</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle; remove the fillets, and cut them intocollops as for “Selle à la Metternich.” Garnish the cavitieswith Soubise sauce “au currie”; reconstruct the fillets, puttinga little of the same sauce between the collops, and coat thesurface of the piece with the sauce already referred to.</p>
		<p>Surround the joint with braised celery, and serve its cooking liquor and a timbale of <a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2255">pilaff rice</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1186" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la PIEMONTAISE</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle, and cut the fillets into collops as before.When reconstructing the fillets, between the collops put a littleBgchame! sauce, combined with three and one-half oz. of gratedParmesan and three and one-half oz. of grated white trufflesper quart of the sauce.</p>
		<p>Coat the surface of the joint with the same sauce, and setto glaze quickly.</p>
		<p>Serve the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease and strained, separately; as also a timbale of rizotto &amp; la Piémontaise (№2258).</p>
		<h3 id="1187" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU PRINCE ORLOFF</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle and proceed as above, placing betweenthe collops of fillet a little Soubise sauce and a fine slice oftruffle.</p>
		<p>Coat the surface of the joint with Mornay sauce, combinedwith one quart of highly-seasoned Soubise, and set to glazequickly.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—This saddle may be accompanied either by a garnishof asparagus-heads or by cucumbers with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1188" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la ROMANOFF</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle; remove the fillets, and cut the latter intocollops as for “Selle à la Metternich.” Reconstruct the fillets, placing a small quantity of minced mushrooms, cohered bymeans of a few tablespoonfuls of cream, between the collops, and coat the surface of the joint with highly-seasoned Bechamelsauce, finished with four oz. of crayfish butter per quart.</p>
		<p>Surround the piece with a border of braised half-fennels.Serve the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease, reduced andstrained, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1189" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la TOSCA</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle, and then prepare it as for №1183.Almost completely fill the cavities left by the fillets with agarnish of macaroni, cut into short lengths, cohered with cream, and combined with a julienne of truffles.</p>
		<p>Reconstruct the fillets upon this garnish and coat the collopswith Mornay sauce, placing a slice of truffle between the collops.The reconstructed fillets thus appear raised on either side of thechine.</p>
		<p>Coat the surface of the joint with the same sauce as thatalready used, and set to glaze quickly. Send the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease and strained, to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1190" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la RENAISSANCE</h3>
		<p>Braise the saddle, and glaze it at the last moment. Dish itand surround it with a large heap of cauliflower at either end;on either side, nice heaps of carrots and turnips, raised bymeans of an oval, grooved spoon-cutter, cooked in consommé and glazed; peas; French beans in lozenge-form; asparagus-</p>
		<p>heads cohered with butter; and some small potatoes cooked inbutter.</p>
		<p>Send the braising-liquor of the joint, cleared of grease andstrained, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1191" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU à la TALLEYRAND</h3>
		<p>Prepare twenty studs of truffle, about one inch long andone-third oz. in weight. Stick them upright and symmetricallyinto the meat of the joint, making way for them by means oflittle incisions cut with a small knife. Now envelop the jointin slices of larding bacon, string it, braise it, and glaze it atthe last moment.</p>
		<p>Dish it with some of its braising-liquor, cleared of all greaseand reduced.</p>
		<p>Serve separately (1) what remains of the braising-liquor;(2) a garnish of macaroni, cut into half-inch lengths, coheredwith one and one-half oz. of butter, three oz. of grated Gruy&amp;reand Parmesan, combined with three oz. of foie gras, cut intolarge dice, and three oz. of a julienne of truffles, per lb. ofmacaroni.</p>
		<h3 id="1192" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE de VEAU FROIDE</h3>
		<p>Cold saddle of veal makes an excellent sideboard dish whichadmits of all cold-dish garnishes, such as Macedoines of vege-tables cohered with jelly or mayonnaise sauce; artichoke-bottoms and tomatoes, variously garnished; small, mouldedvegetable salads, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Decorate it with fine, regular, jelly dice; but its usual andessential adjunct is its own braising-liquor, cooked, cleared ofgrease poured carefully away, and served in a sauceboat withouthaving been either clarified or cleared.</p>
		<p>All the pieces of veal given as relevés, the cushion, the loin, the fillet, and the fricandeau, may be served cold like the saddle, and are generally much appreciated, more particularly insummer.</p>
		<h3 id="1193" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LOIN of VEAL</h3>
		<h3 id="1194" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NECK of VEAL</h3>
		<h3 id="1195" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SHORT LOIN of VEAL</h3>
		<h3 id="1196" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHUMP of VEAL or QUASI</h3>
		<h3 id="1197" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUSHION of VEAL (Releves)</h3>
		<p>I have grouped these various Releves together owing tothe identicalness of their garnishes.</p>
		<p>The directions I give below for cushion of veal are, with avery few exceptions which I shall point out, applicable to allother large veal joints. In the circumstances, therefore, itwould be quite unnecessary to repeat the recipe in each case.</p>
		<p>Loin of Veal is that piece which corresponds with the sirloinin beef. It extends from the floating ribs to the extreme endof the haunch, the latter being cut flush with the pelvic boneat its junction with the femur, and following the direction ofthe former bone. The loin thus consists of two distinct parts: —(i) the caudal region (called the chump end; Fr. quasi), whichcomprises the bones of the pelvis and the haunch, up to thelevel of the latter, and is one of the best pieces of veal forbraising; and (2) the region extending from the haunch to thefloating ribs, comprising the fillet and the upper fillet. Thislast portion also constitutes a choice joint, to which the kidneysare generally left attached, after all their superfluous fat hasbeen removed.</p>
		<p>Neck or Best End of Veal consists of the first eight or nineribs, cut two inches above the kernel of meat. The ends of therib-bones are cleared of meat to a height of about two-thirdsinch, and the naked bone is then called the “handle” of thecutlet, which ultimately holds the ornamental frill of paper.</p>
		<p>The vertebræ are then suppressed, so that the bones of theribs alone remain; the yellow ligament is cut away; and thebared parts are covered with slices of bacon, tied on by meansof string.</p>
		<p>Cushion of Veal consists of an enormous muscle, whichrepresents almost half of the haunch and all the inside part ofit, from the pelvis to its junction with the tibia. A certainquantity of white fat will always be found to lie over the cushion, and it should be carefully reserved.</p>
		<p>If the cushion is to be larded, a procedure which I do notadvise, it should be done on the bared part adjoining the fat-covered region.</p>
		<p>The various pieces of veal enumerated above may be roasted, but, as in the case of the saddle, I prefer braising, owing tothe greater succulence of the dish resulting from this process, and its accompanying gravy, which has an incomparableflavour. (See Braising of White Meats, №248.)</p>
		<h3 id="1198" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ADJUNCTS TO CUSHION of VEAL</h3>
		<p>Cushion of veal, like the other large pieces of veal, admitsof an almost unlimited number of vegetable garnishes, simpleor compound, as also garnishes of various pastes.</p>
		<p>From among these garnishes the following may be quoted, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>:—Bouquetiére, Bourgeoise, Chartreuse, Choisy, Chicorde, Cardoons, Clamart, Braised Celery, Japanese Artichokes, Chow-chow, Endives, Spinach, Braised Lettuce, à la Vichy, à la Nemours, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>; Jardiniere, Macedoine, Renaissance, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Among the paste garnishes:—Noodles, Macaroni, Spa-ghetti, variously prepared; various Gnocchi, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>And, in addition to all these, the garnishes already givenunder Beef Relevés, which need not be repeated here.</p>
		<p>I shall, therefore, give only three recipes which are properto cushion of veal; though even these should be regarded asmere curiosities, seeing that, far from recommending them, Iconsider them rather as gastronomical mistakes. But someprovision must be made for outlandish tastes, and, for thisreason alone, I include the following recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="1199" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOIX de VEAU en SURPRISE</h3>
		<p>Braise the cushion of veal, keeping it somewhat firm. Thisdone, set it on a dish, and let it almost cool.</p>
		<p>Then cut a slice from it laterally, at a point one-third inchof its height from the top; and, within one-half inch of itsedges, make a circular incision, pressing the point of a sharpknife into the meat, and withdraw the centre of the cushion.Take care to leave the same thickness of meat on the sides ason the bottom, that is to say, about one-half inch. The cushionof veal, thus emptied, should have the appearance of a roundor oval case.</p>
		<p>If the meat withdrawn from the centre of the cushion is toserve for the garnish, or is to be used sliced to surround thecase, cut it from out the whole in the largest possible pieces, inorder that slices may easily be cut therefrom.</p>
		<p>The inside of the emptied cushion of veal is then garnishedaccording to fancy; the top of the piece that was cut off at thestart is returned to its place, with the view of giving the piecean untouched appearance, and the whole is put in the oven fora few minutes that it may be hot for serving.</p>
		<p>The braising-liquor, cleared of grease and strained, shouldbe sent to the table separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1200" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOIX de VEAU en SURPRISE à la MACEDOINE</h3>
		<p>Braise the cushion of veal, and hollow it out as explained</p>
		<p>above.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile (i) prepare a Macedoine garnish, or mixed Jar-diniere (cohered with butter or cream), the quantity of whichshould be in proportion to the size of the case; (2) cut themeat, withdrawn from the centre of the cushion, into thinrectangles.</p>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of the case with a layer of Macedoine, and set thereon a litter consisting of the rectangles of meat.Cover with Macedoine; set thereon another litter of the pieces</p>
		<p>of meat, and renew the operation until the case is filled. Finishup with a layer of Macedoine.</p>
		<p>Replace the slice cut from the cushion at the start; put thecase in the oven for a few minutes; serve, and send the braising-liquor separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1201" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">-NOIX de VEAU en SURPRISE à la PITHIVIERS</h3>
		<p>Braise the cushion of veal, and prepare the case as directedabove.</p>
		<p>Stuff fifteen larks without boning them; that is to say, puta lump of stuffing about the size of a hazel-nut into each. Frythem in butter with one-half lb. of mushrooms and three oz.of truffles, each of which vegetables should be raw and minced.Cohere the whole with the necessary quantity of half-glaze sauce, flavoured with game essence; put this garnish in the case;return the sliced piece to its place; seal the cover to the caseby means of a thread of almost liquid forcemeat, and set in theoven for seven or eight minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking the case out of the oven, surround with thewithdrawn meat, which should have been cut into thin slicesand kept warm until required for the dressing.</p>
		<p>The larks may be replaced by quails or thrushes, or othersmall birds, but the name of the particular bird used must bereferred to in the title of the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1202" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOIX de VEAU en SURPRISE à la TOULOUSAINE</h3>
		<p>Braise the cushion and cut it to the shape of a case asexplained above. Pour therein a garnish consisting of quenellesof chicken forcemeat; lamb sweetbreads, or collops of vealsweetbreads, braised without colouration; cocks’ combs; smallmushrooms, cooked and very white; and slices of truffle; thewhole to be cohered by means of an Allemande sauce, flavouredwith mushroom essence.</p>
		<p>Return the piece sliced off at the start to its place, and sur-round with slices of the meat withdrawn from the inside ofthe cushion.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—All the garnishes suited to Vol-au-vent and timbalesmay be served with cushion-of-veal case, which latter thus stands in the stead of the Vol-au-vent and <a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2394">Timbale crusts</a>.</p>
		<p>Finally, I must ask the reader to bear in mind that methodslike those described above have no place in really good cookery, the ruling principle of which should always be simplicity.</p>
		<h3 id="1203" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOIX de VEAU FROIDE à la CAUCASIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut a cold cushion of veal into slices two inches long byone-half inch wide by one-sixth inch thick.</p>
		<p>D D</p>
		<p>On each slice spread a little butter seasoned with salt andpepper, combined with finely-chopped chives and anchovy filletscut into dice.</p>
		<p>Couple the slices together as for sandwiches; round off theirangles and put them under slight pressure. Prepare a Purée of tomatoes with jelly; mould it in a dome- or Bombe-mould, and let it set on ice.</p>
		<p>When this moulding of tomatoes is quite firm, turn it outin the middle of a round, cold dish; arrange the meat slices allround, and border the dish with cubes of very clear veal jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1204" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOIX de VEAU FROIDE à la SU^DOISE</h3>
		<p>(1) From the widest part of a cold cushion of veal, cut alateral slice one and one-third inch thick, and trim it nicelyround.</p>
		<p>(2) Let a coating of aspic jelly set on the bottom of a rounddish, and upon this jelly, when it is quite firm, lay the sliceof veal.</p>
		<p>(3) Cut what remains of the piece of veal into slices twoinches long, by one and one-half inch broad, by one-eighth inchthick. Prepare the same number of rectangles of salted tongue, of the same size, though slightly thinner than those of veal.</p>
		<p>(4) Cohere a nice vegetable salad with cleared mayonnaise ;mould it in an oiled, Bombe-shaped or narrow pyramid mould, and put it on ice to set.</p>
		<p>Coat the rectangles of veal with horse-radish butter; placea rectangle of tongue on each, and finish off these sandwichesby rounding their corners.</p>
		<p>For Dishing.—By means of a piping-bag fitted with agrooved pipe, garnish the edges of the slice of veal with athread of previously softened butter.</p>
		<p>Turn out the vegetable salad in the centre of the piece ofmeat; set on it the heart of a small lettuce (nicely opened), andarrange the veal and tongue sandwiches all round.</p>
		<p>Serve a cold sauce, derived from the mayonnaise, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1205" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LONQES, CARRES et NOIX de VEAU FROIDS</h3>
		<p>What was said in respect of cold saddle of veal likewise</p>
		<p>applies to the different pieces mentioned in the above title.They may be coated with aspic jelly and dished with Mace-doines of vegetables, cohered with jelly; small salads, coheredwith cleared mayonnaise; garnished artichoke-bottoms, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>The dishes should always be bordered with cubes of veryclear jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1206" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRICANDEAU (Relev6)</h3>
		<p>Fricandeau is a lateral cut from the cushion of veal; that isto say, a piece cut with the grain of the meat. It should not bethicker than one and one-half inches.</p>
		<p>After beating it with a beater or the flat of a chopper, tobreak the fibres of the meat, finely lard the piece of meat on thecut side with strips of bacon, somewhat smaller than those usedfor fillet of beef. Only when the piece is larded may it becalled “Fricandeau for, when not treated thus, it is nothingelse than an ordinary piece of veal. Fricandeau is invariablybraised; but it differs from other braisings of white meat in this, namely, that it must be so cooked as to be easily cut with aspoon. Connoisseurs maintain that Fricandeau should neverbe touched with a knife.</p>
		<p>It is glazed at the last moment, like other braisings, and, in view of its prolonged cooking, should be dished with greatcare.</p>
		<p>All the garnishes enumerated for cushion of veal may beadapted to Fricandeau.</p>
		<h3 id="1207" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRICANDEAU FROID</h3>
		<p>Cold fricandeau constitutes an excellent luncheon dish. Itis dished and surrounded with its braising-liquor, cleared ofgrease and strained. This braising-liquor sets to a jelly, andis the finest adjunct to fricandeau that could be found.</p>
		<p>The piece may be glazed with half-melted jelly, smearedover it by means of a brush.</p>
		<h3 id="1208" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POITRINE de VEAU FARCIE</h3>
		<p>This is really a family dish, admirably suited for a luncheonrelev£. It is accompanied chiefly by vegetable purées, but allthe vegetable and other garnishes given under Cushion of Vealmay be served with it.</p>
		<p>Breast of veal is prepared thus:—After having boned thepiece, open it where it is thickest, without touching the ends. A kind of pocket is thus obtained, into which put the previously-prepared stuffing, taking care to spread it very evenly.</p>
		<p>Now, with coarse cotton, sew up the opening, and rememberto withdraw the cotton when the piece is cooked.</p>
		<p>Stuffing for Breast of Veal.—For a piece weighing fourlbs., add to one lb. of very fine sausage-meat (№196), twooz. of dry duxelles, two oz. of butter, a pinch of choppedparsley, tarragon and chives, a small beaten egg, and a littlesalt and pepper.</p>
		<p>Cooking.—Breast of veal is usually braised; the moistening</p>
		<p>D D 2</p>
		<p>should be short and the cooking process gentle. For a pieceweighing four lbs. when stuffed, allow three hours in a moderateand regular oven. Glaze breast of veal at the last moment, asin the case of other braised meats.</p>
		<h3 id="1209" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TETE de VEAU (Relevd and Entree)</h3>
		<p>Nowadays, calf’s head is rarely served whole, as was thecustom formerly. Still more rarely, however, is it served ata dinner of any importance; and it has now, by almost generalconsent, been relegated to luncheon menus where, indeed, ithas found its proper place.</p>
		<p>After having boned the head, soak it or hold it under arunning tap, for a sufficiently long time to allow of its beingentirely cleared of blood. Then, blanch it for a good half-hour;cool it in cold water; drain it, and rub it with a piece of lemonto avoid its blackening.</p>
		<p>If it is to be cooked whole, as sometimes happens, wrap it ina napkin, that it may be easily handled; if not, cut it into pieces.In either case, plunge it immediately into a boiling blanc (№167).</p>
		<p>With a view of keeping the calf’s head from contact withthe air, which would blacken it, cover it with a napkin, orcover the liquid with chopped suet. A layer of chopped suetis the best possible means of keeping the air from the calf’shead.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the method of serving calf’s head, it is therule to send slices of tongue and collops of brain to the tablewith it.</p>
		<p>The tongue may be cooked simultaneously with the head, andthe brain is poached as described under №1289.</p>
		<h3 id="1210" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TfeTE de VEAU A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Calf’s head a Vanglaise is cooked in a blanc, as explainedabove; but in halves and unboned.</p>
		<p>Dish it on a napkin with sprays of very green parsley anda piece of boiled bacon.</p>
		<p>Send a sauceboat of parsley sauce (№119a) to the table atthe same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1211" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TETE de VEAU à la FINANCIERE</h3>
		<p>Cook the calf’s head in a blanc as already directed. Sup-press portions of the meat, where the latter is thick, in such wiseas to leave only a very little on the skin.</p>
		<p>Cut of pieces into squares of one, two or three in. side;</p>
		<p>put them in a timbale, and cover them with a financi&amp;re garnish ;adding a few small slices of tongue and brain.</p>
		<h3 id="1212" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TETE de VEAU à la POULETTE</h3>
		<p>Cook the calf’s head in a blanc.</p>
		<p>Cut the pieces of the head into small slices, somewhat aslant, and toss them into a previously-prepared poulette sauce (№101).</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of choppedparsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1213" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TETE de VEAU en TORTUE</h3>
		<p>With a round cutter one, two, or three in. in diameter, cutup the pieces of calf’s head, the meat of which must be entirelysuppressed. For this preparation, only the skin of the headshould be used.</p>
		<p>Put the pieces of head in a timbale or on a dish, and coverthem with a Tortue garnish.</p>
		<p>Tortue garnish consists of: Small quenelles of veal force-meat with butter; cock’s combs and kidneys; small mushrooms;stoned, stuffed and poached olives; slices of truffle; gherkinscut to the shape of olives (these should only be put into thesauce at the last moment); and Tortue sauce.</p>
		<p>This garnish comprises, besides, among unsauced ingre-dients: Slices of tongue and calf’s brain; small, trussed cray-fish, cooked in court-bouillon; fried eggs, the half of whose rawwhites should be suppressed; and small croutons of bread-crumb, fried in butter at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="1214" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">T^TE de VEAU à la VINAIGRETTE OU A d’HUILE</h3>
		<p>Set the boiling pieces of calf’s head on a napkin, lying ona dish. Surround them with slices of tongue, collops of brain, and sprigs of very green, curled-leaf parsley.</p>
		<p>Serve separately, on a hors-d’oeuvre dish, without mixingthem, capers, chopped onion and parsley.</p>
		<p>Send to the table at the same time a sauceboat of vinai-grette or sauce &amp; l’huile, prepared by mixing one part ofvinegar, two parts of oil, and one part of the calf’s-headcooking-liquor, together with the necessary salt and pepper.</p>
		<h3 id="1215" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Collops of veal may be cut from either the fillet or thesaddle; but they are more often cut from the cushion. Theirweight varies from three to four oz., and they should alwaysbe cleared of all connective tissue. They may be fashionedto the shape of ovals, or curve-based triangles, and they should</p>
		<p>406 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>be more or less flattened, according to their use. Thus, whenthey are to be plainly tossed, to be afterwards served with asauced garnish or with a sauce, they are simply beaten in orderto break the fibres of the meat, without flattening the lattertoo much; but if, on the contrary, they are to be treated aVanglaise, they should be beaten very thin with the moistenedbeater.</p>
		<p>In either case, they should be cooked somewhat quickly inclarified butter; for, if their cooking lag at all, their meathardens.</p>
		<p>All the garnishes of veal cutlets, and a large number ofthose of the cushion, may be served with the collops. Thesegarnishes may be set on the same dish with the collops whenthe latter are plainly tossed; but, in the case of collops treateda Vanglaise, the garnish or sauce which accompanies themshould be served separately, lest its moisture soften the crispcoating of the collops.</p>
		<h3 id="1216" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GRENADINS</h3>
		<p>Grenadins are veal collops larded with rows of very thinbacon strips, and cut somewhat thicker than ordinary collops.They are really small fricandeaux, the braising of which is acomparatively lengthy operation; for their cooking must be thesame as that of the fricandeaux, and needs quite as much atten-tion. In order that the grenadins be not too dry, they shouldbe frequently basted with their braising-liquor.</p>
		<p>When they are cooked, glaze them -rapidly, and dish themwith one of the garnishes given for the cushion of veal.</p>
		<h3 id="1217" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GRENADINS FROIDS en BELLEVUE</h3>
		<p>This dish may be prepared in several more or less compli-cated ways; here is a simple way:—</p>
		<p>Take as many shell-shaped hors-d’oeuvre dishes as there aregrenadins. Let a thin coat of jelly set on the bottom of each, and set thereon a slight decoration composed of bits of carrot, turnip, peas, French beans in lozenge-form, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr> Put a gren-adin, larded side undermost (i.e., upside down) into each hors-d’oeuvre dish; add enough melted aspic jelly to reach half-wayup the thickness of the grenadin.</p>
		<p>When this jelly has set, lay on it, all round the grenadin, a border consisting of carrots, turnips, French beans and peas.Sprinkle these vegetables with a few drops of jelly, so as tofix them, and keep them from floating, and then fill up thehors-d’oeuvre dishes with jelly.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dip the hors-d’oeuvre dishes into hot</p>
		<p>water; turn out the grenadins on a very cold dish, and arrangethem on it to form a crown.</p>
		<p>Surround with a border of very clear, chopped aspic jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1218" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU (Sweetbreads)</h3>
		<p>Veal sweetbreads may be looked upon as one of the greatestdelicacies in butchers’ meats, and may be served at any dinner, however sumptuous. Select them very white, entirely free ofblood stains, and leave them to soak in fresh water, whichshould be frequently changed, for as long as possible; or, betterstill, place them under a running tap.</p>
		<p>To blanch them (an operation the purpose of which is toharden the surface) put them in a saucepan with enough coldwater to cover them completely, and bring to the boil gently.Let them boil for ten minutes; withdraw them and plunge theminto a basin of fresh water.</p>
		<p>When the sweetbreads are cold, trim them; that is to say, cut away all cartilaginous and connective tissue; lay thembetween two pieces of linen, and put them under a light weightfor two hours.</p>
		<p>Now lard them with fine bacon, tongue or truffle, subject tothe way in which they are to be served. They may also bestudded with either tongue or truffles, or they may be leftunlarded and unstudded, and plainly braised, just as they are.</p>
		<p>Certain it is, that neither studding nor larding enhances in any way whatsoever their quality or sightliness.</p>
		<p>Veal sweetbread consists of two parts, as unequal in qualityas in shape. They are: the “kernel” or heart sweetbread, which is the round and most delicate part, and the “throat,”or throat sweetbread, which is the elongated part, and not ofsuch fine quality as the former.</p>
		<p>In a well-ordered dinner, heart sweetbreads only should beused, as far as possible.</p>
		<p>There are three ways of cooking sweetbreads, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>:—Braising(№248), poaching (№249), and grilling (№259). In thefollowing recipes, therefore, the reader will kindly refer to thedirections given under one of the numbers just mentioned, according as to whether the dish is to be a braising, a poaching, or a grill.</p>
		<h3 id="1219" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ATTEREAUX de RIS de VEAU à la VILLEROY</h3>
		<p>Cut some veal sweetbreads (preferably the throat kind) intoroundels one and one-third in. in diameter and one-third in.thick. Prepare an equal number of mushrooms and truffleroundels, somewhat thinner than those of sweetbread.</p>
		<p>Impale these roundels on little wooden skewers, the size ofmatches, and about four in. long; alternating the differentproducts in so doing. Dip these skewers into a Villeroy sauce, and set them on a dish. When the sauce is quite cold, removethe attereaux; clear them of any superfluous sauce that mayhave fallen on to the dish; dip them in an anglaise (№174);roll them in very fine and fresh bread-crumbs, and turn themwith the fingers, so as to shape them like small cylinders.Plunge them into plenty of hot fat eight minutes before serving-, drain them on a piece of linen; carefully withdraw the woodenskewers and put little silver ones in their place. Dish theattereaux on a folded napkin, with fried parsley in the centre;or set them upright in a circle, on a rice or semolina cushionlying on a dish, and put some very green, fried parsley in themiddle.</p>
		<p>Serve a Périgueux sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1220" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARTREUSE de RIS de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Prepare (1) one and one-quarter lbs. of fine forcemeat withcream (№194); (2) two poached, veal throat sweetbreads, cutinto slices; (3) one-half lb. of cooked mushrooms, cut intolarge slices, and three oz. of sliced truffles; (4) a garnish ofcarrots and turnips, raised by means of a tube- or spoon-cutter, or cut into grooved roundels two-thirds inch in diameter; andpeas and French beans. Each of these vegetables should becooked in a way befitting its nature, and kept somewhat firm.</p>
		<p>Liberally butter a quart Charlotte-mould. Line its bottomand sides with the vegetables, arranged in alternate and vari-coloured rows, and spread thereon a layer of forcemeat, one-half inch thick.</p>
		<p>This done, set upon the layer of forcemeat just spread, another of slices of sweetbread, mushrooms, and truffles; coverthe whole with a coat of forcemeat; start the operation againwith a litter of sweetbread, mushroom, and truffle slices, andproceed as before until the mould is filled. Finish with a layerof forcemeat. Cover with a round piece of buttered paper, andset to poach in a bain-marie and in the oven, for from forty-fiveto fifty minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking the chartreuse out of the bain-marie, let itstand for seven or eight minutes, that the ingredients insidemay settle a little, and then turn it out in the middle of around dish; place a large, cooked, grooved, and very whitemushroom on the top of it, and encircle its base with a crownof small braised and well-trimmed half-lettuces.</p>
		<p>Send to the table, separately, a sauceboat of Velouté flavoured with mushroom essence.</p>
		<h3 id="1221" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU BONNE MAMAN</h3>
		<p>Cut the vegetables intended for the braising stock into ashort and coarse julienne, and add thereto an equal quantityof similarly-cut celery.</p>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads with this julienne, after themanner described under №248, and moisten with excellentveal stock. Take particular care of the vegetables, that theydo not burn.</p>
		<p>When the sweetbreads are ready, glaze them and dish themin a shallow, round cocotte with the julienne of vegetables andthe braising-liquor all round.</p>
		<p>Cover the cocotte, and serve it on a folded napkin,</p>
		<h3 id="1222" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Crepénette de Ris de Veau</h3>
		<p>For this dish take either some white throat sweetbreads,</p>
		<p>or some remains of the latter, from which slices have alreadybeen cut.</p>
		<p>Chop up the throat sweetbreads or the remains, togetherwith their weight of raw calf’s udder.</p>
		<p>Season with one-half oz. of salt and a pinch of pepper; addfive oz. of chopped truffles and two whole eggs per lb. of themince-meat. Mix the whole well; divide it up into portionsweighing three oz., and wrap each portion in a piece of verysoft pig’s caul.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with melted butter and bread-crumbs, and grillgently.</p>
		<p>Dish in the form of a crown, and serve a Périgueux sauceat the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1223" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU à la CEVENOLE</h3>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads and glaze them at the last</p>
		<p>moment.</p>
		<p>Dish them with a heap of small glazed onions at either end, and serve, at the same time, a purée of chestnuts and a sauce-boat of thickened gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1224" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU DEMIDOFP</h3>
		<p>Lard the sweetbreads with bacon and truffles; braise thembrown, and only half-cook them. Then place them in a shallowcocotte, and surround them with the following garnish:—Twooz. of carrots and the same weight of turnips, both cut intogrooved crescents; an equal quantity of small onions, cut intolarge roundels, and some celery cut paysann e-fash ion. Allthese vegetables should be first stewed in butter.</p>
				<p>Add the braising-liquor of the sweetbreads, and one oz. ofminced truffles, and complete the cooking of the former. Clearof all grease and serve in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1225" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de RIS de VEAU BERENGERE</h3>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads and cut each piece into fourmedium-sized slices. Trim each slice with an even, oval fancy-cutter; and, by means of a piping-bag fitted with an even pipe, one-sixth inch in diameter, garnish the edge of each slice witha thick border of mousseline forcemeat, combined with choppedsalted tongue. Set the slices on a tray, and put them in amoderate oven to poach the forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Now, by means of another piping-bag fitted with a groovedpipe, garnish the centre of the slices with a nice rosette of fineand very white Soubise purée; and, in the middle of eachrosette, place a little ball of very black truffle.</p>
		<p>Set each slice on a thin, oval crouton of the same size as theformer and fried in butter. Serve at the same time, in a sauce-boat, the braising-liquor of the sweetbreads, cleared of allgrease, and a timbale of fresh peas.</p>
		<h3 id="1226" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de RIS de VEAU à la FAVORITE</h3>
		<p>Blanch the veal sweetbreads; cool them under pressure, andcut them into slices. Season the latter and toss them inclarified butter.</p>
		<p>At the same time, toss an equal number of slices of foie grasof the same size as those of the sweetbread, after havingseasoned and dredged them.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, alternating the foie gras and the sweet-bread slices; put a crown of sliced truffle on the circle alreadyarranged; and, in the centre, pour a garnish of asparagus-headscohered with butter.</p>
		<p>Send, separately, a Madeira sauce flavoured with truffleessence.</p>
		<h3 id="1227" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de RIS de VEAU GRAND DUC</h3>
		<p>Blanch and cool the sweetbreads, and cut them into slices.Season the latter and cook them in butter without colouration.Dish them in the form of a crown, placing a large slice oftruffle between each; coat with Mornay sauce, and glazequickly.</p>
		<p>When taking the dish out of the oven, arrange a heap ofasparagus-heads cohered with butter, in the middle of the dish, and serve instantly.</p>
		<p>4”</p>
		<h3 id="1228" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de RIS de VEAU JUDIC</h3>
		<p>Blanch and cool the sweetbreads, and cut them into slices.</p>
		<p>Prepare and poach a roll of chicken forcemeat, large enoughto allow of slices being cut therefrom of the same size as thoseof the sweetbreads.</p>
		<p>Season, dredge, and toss the slices of sweetbread in butter, and dish them in the form of a crown, each on a roundel of thepoached chicken forcemeat.</p>
		<p>On each slice place a very small, braised, and well-trimmedlettuce, a slice of truffle, and a cock’s kidney.</p>
		<p>Send a sauceboat of thickened gravy separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1229" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESCALOPES de RIS de VEAU à la MARECHALE</h3>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads, keeping them somewhat firm, and cut them into slices.</p>
		<p>Treat the latter a Vanglaise; brown them in clarified butter, and dish them in a circle, placing a fine slice of truffle betweeneach.</p>
		<p>In the middle of the dish arrange a fine heap of asparagus-heads cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1230" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU GRILLES</h3>
		<p>After having blanched, cooked, and trimmed the sweet-breads, set them to get quite cold under pressure. Then cutthem in two, laterally, at their thickest point; dip each pieceinto melted butter, and grill gently, basting frequently the whilewith melted butter.</p>
		<p>The sweetbreads may also be grilled whole, but the processis perforce a more lengthy one.</p>
		<h3 id="1231" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU GRILLES CARMAGO</h3>
		<p>Cook a brioche, without sugar, in a fluted mould, the aper-ture of which is a little larger than the veal sweetbreads. Care-fully remove the top of the brioche, following the direction ofthe fluting, and withdraw all the crumb from the inside.</p>
		<p>Fill this kind of croustade, two-thirds full, with a garnishconsisting of peas, prepared la française,” and carrots “hla Vichy,” in equal quantities.</p>
		<p>Set the grilled veal sweetbreads on this garnish, and coverit with slices of grilled bacon.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin and serve at once.</p>
		<h3 id="1232" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU GRILLE GISMONDA</h3>
		<p>Prepare a shallow croustade, without colouration, in an oval</p>
		<p>flawn ring of the same length as the veal sweetbread. Grill theveal sweetbread after the manner already described.</p>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of the croustade with equal quantities ofartichoke-bottoms and mushrooms, minced raw, tossed in butter, and cohered with cream sauce.</p>
		<p>Set the grilled sweetbread on the garnish, and place thecroustade on a folded napkin.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a slightly buttered meat-glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1233" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU GRILLE JOCELYNE</h3>
		<p>Cut some potatoes into roundels one and one-half inch thickand of the same size as the veal sweetbread. Stamp the roundels, close up to their edges, with a round, even cutter, and cook themin butter. Grill the sweetbread at the same time.</p>
		<p>When the potatoes are cooked, withdraw all their inside insuch wise as to give them the appearance of cases, and fill themwith Soubise prepared with curry.</p>
		<p>Dish them and set the grilled sweetbread upon them. Onthe sweetbread lay a small half-tomato and a green half-capsicum, both grilled.</p>
		<h3 id="1234" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU GRILLES SAINT-GERMAIN</h3>
		<p>Blanch, prepare, and grill the veal sweetbreads as alreadyexplained. Set them on a long dish, and surround them withalternate heaps of small potatoes cooked in butter and of anice golden colour, and carrots cut to the shape of elongatedolives, cooked in consommé and glazed.</p>
		<p>Serve a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise Sauce</a> and a purée of fresh peas, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1235" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU DES GOURMETS</h3>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads, and, as soon as they are ready, set them in a round, flat cocotte, just large enough to hold them.Cover them with raw truffles, cut into thick slices; strain thebraising-liquor over the whole; cover the cocotte, and seal thecover to the edges of the utensil by means of a thread of softpaste, made simply from a mixture of flour and water.</p>
		<p>The object of this last precaution is to prevent any escapewhatsoever of steam, and to hold the aroma of the truffleswithin.</p>
		<p>Put the cocotte into a very hot oven for ten minutes; set iton a dish, and serve it as it stands. The cover should be re-moved only when the dish reaches the table.</p>
		<h3 id="1236" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU aux QUEUES d’^CREVISSES</h3>
		<p>Stud the sweetbreads with truffle and braise them withoutcolouration. Dish them, and, on either side, set a heap of cray-fishes’ tails (in the proportion of four to each person), coheredwith cream.</p>
		<p>4U</p>
		<p>At either end place some crayfishes’ carapaces (in the pro-portion of two to each sweetbread), garnished with chickenforcemeat combined with crayfish butter, and poached.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, an Allemande sauce prepared with cray-fish butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1237" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU à la REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Stud the sweetbreads with truffles, and braise them withoutcolouration.</p>
		<p>Dish them; pour their reduced braising-liquor round thedish, and surround them with a R^gence garnish, arranged inalternate heaps representing the constituents of the former, which are: quenelles of fine truffled chicken forcemeat; smallgrooved mushrooms; curled cocks’ combs, and truffles cut tothe shape of olives. Serve separately an Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence.</p>
		<h3 id="1238" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU SOUS la CENDRE</h3>
		<p>Stud the veal sweetbreads with truffles and tongue, andthree-parts braise them.</p>
		<p>Cut some slices of salted tongue of the same size as thesweetbreads, garnish them with slices of truffle, and set a sweet-bread on each.</p>
		<p>Cover each sweetbread with a layer of short paste (№2358); set them on a tray; gild; flute; make a small incisionon the top of the paste to allow the escape of steam, and bakein a hot oven for thirty minutes.</p>
		<p>When withdrawing them from the oven, pour in some half-glaze sauce with Madeira, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1239" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU à la TOULOUSAINE</h3>
		<p>Stud the sweetbreads with truffles and braise them withoutcolouration.</p>
		<p>Dish them with the Toulousaine garnish, arranged in heapsall round, and surround the latter with a thread of meat-glaze.</p>
		<p>Toulousaine garnish comprises small chicken-forcemeatquenelles; cocks’ combs and kidneys; very white button-mush-room heads, and slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, an Allemande flavoured with mushroomessence.</p>
		<h3 id="1240" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUSTADE de RIS de VEAU à la FINANClfeRE</h3>
		<p>Prepare (1) the required number of small, fluted croustades, baked without colouration in rather large tartlet moulds. (2)The same number of slices of braised veal sweetbread as thereare croustades, and of the same size. (3) A financi&amp;re garnish, consisting of very small chicken-forcemeat quenelles; grooved</p>
		<p>44</p>
		<p>button-mushrooms, and sliced cocks’ combs and kidneys. Thewhole covered by half-glaze with Madeira, in the proportion ofone tablespoonful per croustade. (5) As many fine slices oftruffle as there are croustades.</p>
		<p>Put a tablespoonful of the garnish into each croustade; setthereon a slice of sweetbread; put a slice of truffle upon that, and dish the croustades on a folded napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1241" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pâté CHAUD de RIS de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Butter an ordinary round hot raised pie, or a Charlotte-mould. Take about one and one-half lbs. of short paste androll it into galettes, one-third inch thick; fold the paste overafter having dredged it slightly; draw the two ends gentlytowards the centre, to form a kind of skullcap, which, whenplaced in the mould, immediately lines the latter. Avoid makingfolds in the paste while preparing the skullcap, for they wouldspoil the look of the patty when turned out.</p>
		<p>Press the paste on the bottom and sides of the mould, thatthe latter may impart its shape to its lining, and cut the pro-jecting paste to within half inch of the brim. Now coat thebottom and sides of the mould with a layer of chicken force-meat, of an even thickness of two-thirds of an inch.</p>
		<p>Pour into the centre of the mould a garnish composed ofslices of poached veal sweetbread; sliced and cooked mush-rooms and sliced truffles; the whole covered with reduced andsomewhat stiff Allemande sauce, flavoured with mushroomessence.</p>
		<p>Cover the garnish with a coating of forcemeat, and closethe patty with a layer of paste, the edges of which should bemoistened and sealed down all round the brim of the mould.Pinch the rim of paste inside and outside, and finish off withleaves of paste stamped out with a fancy-cutter, ribbed by meansof the back of a knife, and laid upon the paste cover. Gild withbeaten egg; make a central slit for the escape of steam, and setto bake in a hot oven, for from forty-five to fifty minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking the patty out of the oven, turn it out and dishit on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1242" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE de RIS de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Butter a timbale mould and decorate its sides with thin piecesof noodle paste, in the shape of lozenges, crescents, indentedrings, discs and imitation-leaves. Excellent ornamentalarrangements may be effected thus; but the reader should bearin mind that the simplest are the best.</p>
		<p>Prepare a skullcap of paste as explained under №1241;</p>
		<p>Relevés and ENTREES</p>
				<p>slightly moisten the ornamental work in the mould, that it maycling to the paste of the timbale, and line the latter with pastewhich should be well pressed in all directions, that it may takethe shape of the mould.</p>
		<p>Then pierce the paste on the bottom, to prevent its blisteringduring the baking process; line the bottom and sides withbuttered paper, and fill the timbale, three-quarters full, withsplit peas or lentils.</p>
		<p>Cover the latter with a round piece of paper, and close thetimbale by means of a round layer of paste, which should besealed down round the edges. Make and trim the crest of thetimbale; pinch it inside and out, and finish the cover, by meansof applied imitation-leaves of paste, superposed to form a kindof dome.</p>
		<p>Set in a moderate oven, and when the timbale is baked, remove its cover with the view of withdrawing the lentils orpeas and the paper, the sole object of which was to providea support for the cover. Besmear the inside of the timbale witha brush dipped in the beaten white of an egg; keep it for aminute or two in front of the oven, with the view of dryingit inside; turn it out, and spread upon its bottom and sides avery thin coat of chicken or ordinary forcemeat, the purposeof which is to shield the crust from the softening effects of thejuices of the garnish.</p>
		<p>Put the timbale in the front of the oven for a moment ortwo, that this coating of forcemeat may poach.</p>
		<p>Garnish.—Veal sweetbreads, braised without colourationand cut into collops; small mushrooms; cocks’ combs andkidneys; small quenelles of chicken, mousseline forcemeat, orroundels of chicken forcemeat rolls one-third inch thick, trimmedwith the fancy-cutter; and slices of truffles, half of which shouldbe kept for the purposes of decoration.</p>
		<p>Cover this garnish with Allemande sauce, prepared withmushroom essence. Pour it into the timbale, just beforeserving; upon it set the reserved slices of truffle, in the form ofa crown; replace the cover; dish upon a folded napkin, andserve.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr> (1) As already stated the garnish of the timbale may becohered with a half-glaze sauce, flavoured with Madeira ortruffle essence.</p>
		<p>(2) In this garnish, whether it be cohered by means of awhite or brown sauce, the slices of veal sweetbreads are alwaysthe principal ingredient; but, subject to the circumstances, theother details may be altered or modified.</p>
		<h3 id="1243" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VOL au VENT de RIS de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Vol au vent, which formerly held the place of honour onbourgeois menus, has now fallen somewhat into the back-ground; nevertheless, I wished it to appear among the recipesin this work.</p>
		<p>The preparation of the paste: Make the vol au vent crustas explained under №2390.</p>
		<p>Garnish.—Prepare it exactly as explained under “Timbalede ris de Veau.” This garnish may also be cohered with abrown sauce, and its minor ingredients may be modified; butthe slices of veal sweetbread must always stand as the domin-ating element.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the selected kind of garnish, vol au vent shouldalways be accompanied by medium-sized, trussed crayfish, cooked in court-bouillon.</p>
		<p>Dishing.—Set the vol au vent crust upon a dish covered witha napkin; pour the garnish into it; decorate with slices oftruffle; arrange the crayfish round the edge, and lay the coverupon the crayfish.</p>
		<h3 id="1244" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU à la RICHELIEU</h3>
		<p>Braise the veal sweetbreads exactly as described under “Risde Veau Bonne Maman,” taking care to keep the braising-liquor sufficiently plentiful to well cover the sweetbreads in thecocotte.</p>
		<p>When the sweetbreads are in the cocotte, together with thejulienne of vegetables and a julienne of truffles, strain thebraising-liquor over the whole; leave to cool well, and, whenthe liquid has turned to a jelly, remove the grease that hasrisen to the surface.</p>
		<p>Dish the cocotte on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1245" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS de VEAU à la SUEDOISE</h3>
		<p>Poach the veal sweetbreads without colouration, and, whenthey are quite cold, cut them into thin and regular collops.Spread some horse-radish butter over the latter, and cover witha slice of tongue of the same size as the underlying collop.</p>
		<p>Bake a crust without colouration in a Hawn ring, of a sizein proportion to the number of slices, and garnish it with avegetable salad cohered with mayonnaise. This crust mustnecessarily be made in advance.</p>
		<p>Upon the salad now set the collops, either in the form of acrowm or in that of a small turban; in the middle place a finelettuce heart, the leaves of which should be slightly opened out.</p>
		<p>relevés and entries</p>
		<h3 id="1246" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PALETS de RIS de VEAU A d’ECARLATE</h3>
		<p>Poach the sweetbreads; when they are cold, cut them intocollops half-an-inch thick, and trim them with a round, evencutter. Stamp out some roundels of salted tongue with thesame cutter, but let them be only one-eighth inch thick, andtwice as many as the collops of veal sweetbread.</p>
		<p>Coat the latter, on either side, with butter prepared withmustard; and cover with a roundel of tongue.</p>
		<p>Set the prepared collops on a tray; let the butter harden, coat with jelly, and deck the middle of each quoit with a fineslice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Arrange the quoits in a circle on a round dish; put somechopped jelly in the centre, and border the dish with veryregularly-cut jelly dice.</p>
		<p>Serve a horse-radish sauce and an Italian salad separately.</p>
		<p>Calf’s Liver.</p>
		<p>Calf’s liver is served chiefly as a breakfast or luncheonentree.</p>
		<p>Nevertheless, in ordinary menus, it is sometimes served asa relev6, braised and whole.</p>
		<h3 id="1247" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FOIE de VEAU BRAISE à la BOURGEOISE</h3>
		<p>Lard the piece with large, seasoned strips of bacon, as for “Bœuf à la Mode.” Brown it slightly in the oven, and thenput it into a saucepan garnished for braising. (№247.)</p>
		<p>Moisten with one pint of white wine, and reduce it com-pletely. This done, moisten again with brown stock, addingone pint of Espagnole sauce per quart of the moistening.</p>
		<p>It is sufficient if the moistening and the sauce reach a littleabove the middle of the piece of liver.</p>
		<p>When the cooking is two-thirds completed, transfer the liverto another saucepan; surround it with carrots, shaped like elon-gated olives and half-cooked in consommé; and some smallonions, half-cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>The amount of this garnish of carrots and onions shouldnaturally be in proportion to the size of the piece of liver.</p>
		<p>Strain the sauce over the whole, and complete the cookinggently in the oven. Dish the liver with the carrots and onionsall round; reduce the sauce if necessary, and pour it over thegarnish.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr> The latter need not be arranged symmetrically.</p>
		<p>On the contrary simplicity should be made a feature of thesebourgeois dishes.</p>
		<p>E E</p>
		<h3 id="1248" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FOIE de VEAU A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cut the calf’s liver into fairly thin slices, from two-and-a-halfoz. to three oz. in weight. Season them with salt and pepper;dredge them, and toss them in butter. Grill an equal numberof rashers of bacon.</p>
		<p>Dish the slices of liver and the rashers of bacon alternately, and sprinkle them with the butter in which the liver was cooked, or with a brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1249" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BROCHETTES de FOIE de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Select a pale piece of calf’s liver and cut it into square piecestwo-thirds of an inch thick. Season with salt and pepper, andtoss the pieces in butter, just to stiffen them.</p>
		<p>Put them into a basin with an equal quantity of blanchedsalted breast of pork, cut into squares, and of slices of cookedmushrooms. Add a few tablespoonfuls of stiff Duxelles sauce, and toss the whole together, that each particle of the various in-gredients may become coated with Duxelles.</p>
		<p>This done, impale the squares of liver and pork and theslices of mushrooms upon a ringed skewer, alternating themin so doing; sprinkle copiously with fine raspings and meltedbutter, and set to grill gently.</p>
		<p>These brochettes are served, either on a maître-d’hôtel butter, or on a Duxelles, Fines Herbes, an Italian or other sauce.</p>
		<p>,250—FOIE de VEAU A d’ESPAGNOLE</p>
		<p>Cut the calf’s liver into slices weighing three and a half oz.;season these with salt and pepper; dredge them; sprinkle themwith oil, and grill them gently.</p>
		<p>•Meanwhile, prepare:—(1) As many grilled half-tomatoes asthere are pieces of liver; (2) onions cut into thin roundels, sea-soned, dredged, and fried in oil; (3) a proportionate quantityof fried parsley.</p>
		<p>Arrange the grilled slices of liver along the centre of anoval dish; place a half-tomato upon each; and, on one side, set the fried onions, on the other, the fried parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1251" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">- FOIE de VEAU Sauté aux FINES HERBES</h3>
		<p>Cut the calf’s liver into slices, as above; season these withsalt and pepper; dredge them, and toss them in butter.</p>
		<p>Arrange the slices in a circle on a round dish; and eitherpour the herb sauce over the slices, or serve it separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1252" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAIN de FOIE de VEAU</h3>
		<p>For a calf’s liver loaf made in a quart mould: Cut one lb. ofcalf’s liver into dice, and finely pound these together with one-</p>
		<p>third oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Add, little by little, five oz. of very cold frangipane panada, and twoeggs.</p>
		<p>Rub through a sieve; put the forcemeat in a bowl; workit over ice, and finish it with two tablespoonfuls of choppedonions, cooked in butter, without colouration; the yolks of twoeggs, and quarter pint of thick cream, added by degrees.</p>
		<p>Pour this forcemeat into a well-buttered quart Charlotte-mould; knock the latter gently on a folded serviette, with theview of settling its contents, and put it to poach in the ovenin a bain-marie, for about forty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking the loaf out of the oven, let it stand for fiveminutes, that the forcemeat inside may thoroughly settle;turn it out on a round dish, and cover it with a Duxelles, Italienne, Bordelaise, brown caper, or other sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1253" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTES de VEAL</h3>
		<p>Veal cutlets may either be grilled or sautéd, but the secondmethod of cooking them is, in most cases, preferable.</p>
		<p>When they are sautéd, the cutlets should be cooked in clari-fied butter, over a somewhat fierce fire and in a utensil largeenough to hold them without crowding.</p>
		<p>This done, dish them; pour away the butter in which theyhave been cooked; swill the saucepan, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, dissolve the concen-trated gravy adhering to the sides and bottom of it with a liquidin keeping with the garnish; either mushroom cooking-liquor, white or red wine, or Madeira, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>; and add this swilling-liquor, reduced, to the accompanying sauce. The latter isgenerally a buttered half-glaze, but the best adjunct to vealcutlets is a pale meat glaze, moderately buttered.</p>
		<p>All vegetable and paste garnishes, given under Cushion ofVeal, suit veal cutlets. I must therefore beg the reader torefer to those recipes, as circumstances may dictate; and restrictmyself to a few formulae which, in my opinion, are suited moreparticularly to veal cutlets.</p>
		<h3 id="1254" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU à la BONNE FEMME</h3>
		<p>Put the veal cutlet into an earthenware saucepan, with oneand one-half oz. of butter, and brown it well on both sides. Addsix small onions cooked in butter, three oz. of potatoes cutinto roundels; and complete the cooking gently in the oven, keeping the saucepan covered.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation in the saucepan as it stands.</p>
		<p>*255—COTE de VEAU en CASSEROLE</p>
		<p>Heat one oz. of butter in an earthenware saucepan; insertthe veal cutlet, seasoned, and cook it gently, taking care to turnit over from time to time.</p>
		<p>At the last moment, add a tablespoonful of excellent vealgravy, and serve in the saucepan.</p>
		<h3 id="1256" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU en COCOTTE à la PAYSANNE</h3>
		<p>Toss the veal cutlet in butter, in the cocotte, with two smallslices of blanched salted breast of pork. Add four small onions, and two small, long potatoes, cut paysanne-fashion; and com-plete the cooking of the cutlets and the garnish very gently inthe oven.</p>
		<p>Send the preparation to the table in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1257" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—Côte de Veau à la Dreux</h3>
		<p>Stud the kernel of the veal cutlet with tongue, ham andtruffle, and cook it gently in butter. This done, trim it to thequick on both sides, that the studding may be clean and neat;dish it with a frill on the bare bone, and, beside it, arrange asmall garnish of quenelles, mushrooms, cocks’ combs andkidneys, and turned and blanched olives.</p>
		<p>Pour a little half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence, over the garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1258" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côte de Veau Milanaise</h3>
		<p>With a moistened butcher’s beater, flatten the meat in such-wise as to reduce it to half its normal thickness. Dip the vealcutlet into beaten egg; roll it in bread-crumbs, mixed with halfas much grated Parmesan, and cook it in clarified butter, 01butter and oil in equal quantities.</p>
		<p>Dish it with a frill on the bare bone, and the garnish besideit.</p>
		<p>Milanaise garnish consists of cooked macaroni, seasonedwith salt, pepper and nutmeg, and cohered with butter, grated Gruyère and Parmesan cheeses, and very red tomato purée; andcombined with a julienne of very lean cooked ham, saltedtongue, mushrooms and truffles, heated in Madeira.</p>
		<h3 id="1259" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">1259—COTE de VEAU PAPILLOTE</h3>
		<p>Toss the veal cutlet in butter, and prepare, meanwhile:—</p>
		<p>(1) Two tablespoonfuls of Duxelles sauce, combined witha cooked and sliced mushroom.</p>
		<p>(2) Two heart-shaped slices of ham, of about the same sizeas the cutlet.</p>
		<p>(3) A doubled sheet of strong paper, cut to the shape ofa heart and well-oiled.</p>
		<p>Spread out the sheet of paper, and, in the middle thereof, lay a slice of ham; spread a tablespoonful of Duxelles on thelatter; put the cutlet on the sauce; cover it with the remainderof the Duxelles, and finish with the other slice of ham.</p>
		<p>Fold the sheet of paper so as to enclose the whole; pleatthe edges nicely; put the cutlet on a tray, and blow out thepapillote in a fairly hot oven. When taking it out of the oven, transfer it to a dish, and serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="1260" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU POJARSKI</h3>
		<p>Completely separate the meat of the veal cutlet from thebone; clear it of all skin and gristle, and chop it up with half itsweight of butter, salt and pepper. Mass this mince-meat closeup to the bone, shaping it like a cutlet, and cook the whole inclarified butter, turning it over very carefully in the process.</p>
		<p>Dish with a suitable garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1261" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU ZINGARA</h3>
		<p>Cook the veal cutlet in butter; at the same time prepare a sliceof raw ham, cut to the shape of the cutlet, and likewise tossedin butter.</p>
		<p>Dish the cutlet; set the slice of ham upon it, and surroundwith a few tablespoonfuls of Zingara sauce.</p>
		<p>Zingara sauce is prepared thus: Reduce a few tablespoonfulsof white wine and mushroom cooking-liquor to half. Addone-fifth pint of half-glaze, two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce, one tablespoonful of veal stock, one oz. of a julienne of tongue, mushrooms and truffles; and set to boil for a few seconds.</p>
		<h3 id="1262" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU FROIDE en BELLE VUE</h3>
		<p>Let a little jelly set in a utensil somewhat resembling a cutletin shape. Trim the veal cutlet; decorate it with various littlevegetables, and sprinkle the latter with half-melted jelly, so asto fix them.</p>
		<p>Put the cutlet on the layer of set jelly, inside the utensil, and let it lie with its decorated side undermost.</p>
		<p>Add enough jelly to cover the cutlet, and let the formeiset.</p>
		<p>This done, pass the blade of a small knife (dipped in hotwater) round the cutlet; set the utensil for a moment upon anapkin dipped in hot water, turn out the cutlet with care, andset it on a cold dish, with a border of chopped aspic, and afrill on the bone.</p>
		<h3 id="1263" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTE de VEAU FROIDE RUBENS</h3>
		<p>Trim the veal cutlet; coat it with half-melted aspic, and coverit with young hop shoots, cohered with tomato sauce cleared bymeans of aspic.</p>
		<p>Let the sauce thoroughly set, and then put the cutlet betweentwo layers of aspic as explained above.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr> Cold veal cutlets may also be served Belle-vuefashion, after the very simple manner described under “Gren-adins en Belle-vue” (№1217).</p>
		<h3 id="1264" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROQNON de VEAU</h3>
		<p>When sautéd after the usual manner, veal kidney admits ofall the preparations given for sheep’s kidney. (See the chapteron Mutton.)</p>
		<p>* shall now, therefore, only give those recipes which areproper to veal kidney.</p>
		<h3 id="1265" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROQNON de VEAU en CASSEROLE</h3>
		<p>Trim the veal kidney and only leave a very slight layer offat all round it.</p>
		<p>Heat one oz. of butter in a small, earthenware saucepan, alsocalled “cocotte put the seasoned kidney into the latter, andcook it gently for about thirty minutes, taking care to turn itoften the while.</p>
		<p>At the last minute sprinkle it with a tablespoonful of goodveal gravy. Serve it in the cocotte as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1266" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROQNON de VEAU en COCOTTE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the veal kidney and fry it in butter, as in the case ofthe “en casserole” dish. Surround it with one and one-halfoz. of small pieces of blanched bacon, tossed in butter; one andone-half oz. of raw, quartered mushrooms, also tossed, andone and one-half oz. of small blanched potatoes, of the sizeand shape of garlic cloves, and the same quantity of small, glazed onions. Complete the cooking of the whole gently.</p>
		<p>At the last minute, add a tablespoonful of good, veal gravy, and serve the cocotte as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1267" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNON de VEAU GRILLE</h3>
		<p>Trim the veal kidney, and leave a slight layer of fat all roundit. Cut it in half lengthwise, without completely separating thetwo halves, and impale it on a small skewer, with the viewof keeping it in shape.</p>
		<p>Season with salt and pepper, and grill it gently; basting itoften the while with melted butter.</p>
		<p>Send separately, either a Maître-d’hôtel, a Bercy, or otherbutter suited to grills.</p>
		<h3 id="1268" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNON de VEAU à la LIEGEOISE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the veal kidney as for " en casserole.” One minutebefore serving, add one small wineglassful of burned gin, twocrushed juniper berries, and one tablespoonful of good vealgravy. Serve in the cooking-utensil.</p>
		<h3 id="1269" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNON de VEAU à la MONTPENSIER</h3>
		<p>Trim the veal kidney, leaving a slight coating of fat all roundit, and cut into five or six slices. Season the latter, toss themin butter over a brisk fire, and transfer them to a plate.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with one tablespoonful of Madeira, andadd thereto three tablespoonfuls of melted meat glaze, a fewdrops of lemon juice, one and one-half oz. of butter, and a pinchof chopped parsley.</p>
		<p>Dish the pieces of kidney, or set them in a timbale;sprinkle them with the sauce, and in their midst set a heapof asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, and one and one-halfoz. of truffle slices.</p>
		<h3 id="1270" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognon de Veau Portugaise</h3>
		<p>Cut up the veal kidney, and toss it in butter, after the mannerdescribed under №1269.</p>
		<p>Dish the pieces in a circle on a dish; set a very small, stuffedhalf-tomato upon each, and garnish the centre of the dish witha very reduced tomato fondue. Surround the kidney with asauce prepared as directed above.</p>
		<h3 id="1271" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNON de VEAU à la ROBERT</h3>
		<p>Heat one oz. of butter in a small cocotte-, put the seasonedveal kidney therein; fry it over a brisk fire, and set it to cookin the oven for about fifteen minutes. Serve the kidney as itleaves the oven, and complete the procedure, at the table, inthe following manner:—</p>
		<p>Transfer the kidney to a hot plate. Place the cocotte on aspirit lamp; pour into the former one glassful of excellentliqueur brandy, and reduce to half. Meanwhile, quickly cutthe kidney into extremely thin slices, and cover these with anoverturned plate.</p>
		<p>Add to the reduced liqueur brandy one coffeespoonful ofmustard, one oz. of butter cut into small pieces, the juice of aquarter of a lemon, and a pinch of chopped parsley; and workthe whole well with a fork, with the view of effecting the leason.</p>
		<p>Put the sliced kidney into this sauce, together with the</p>
		<p>gravy that has drained from it; heat the whole well, withoutboiling, and serve on very hot plates.</p>
		<h3 id="1272" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TENDRONS de VEAU</h3>
		<p>The tendrons are cut from breast of veal. They are, in fact, the extreme ends of the ribs, including the cartilage of thesternum.</p>
		<p>If the tendrons are braised, treat them after the mannerdescribed under “The Braising of White Meats” (№248); or, simply stew them in butter; moisten them with excellent vealstock, and baste them frequently while cooking them. Theymay also be treated like an ordinary veal sauté, from which theyonly differ in shape, and the various preparations of which maybe adapted to them.</p>
		<p>The garnishes best suited to them are those of early-seasonvegetables, and, as a matter of fact, the latter, together withsuch pastes as noodles, macaroni, spaghetti, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, are the gar-nishes most often served with them.</p>
		<h3 id="1273" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANQUETTE de VEAU A d’ANCIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut the veal tendrons into pieces weighing about three oz.Then, slightly blanch them; cool them, and put them into asaucepan with enough white stock to cover; add a very littlesalt; set to boil, and skim.</p>
		<p>For two lbs. of tendrons, add one small carrot; one fair-sized onion, stuck wdth a clove; a faggot, consisting of oneleek, parsley stalks, and a fragment of thyme and bay; and setto cook gently for one and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>Prepare a white roux from one and one-half oz. of butterand one and one-half oz. of flour; moisten with one pint ofveal cooking-liquor; add one oz. of mushroom parings, andcook for a quarter of an hour, despumating the sauce the while.</p>
		<p>Transfer the pieces of tendron, one by one, to a sauté-pan withtwelve small onions cooked in consommé, and fifteen small, cooked and very white mushrooms. Finish the sauce with aleason of two egg-yolks, mixed with three tablespoonfuls ofcream and a few drops of lemon juice; strain it over the vealand its garnish; heat without boiling; dish in a timbale, andsprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr> This blanquette may also be prepared with noodlesor ckpes, instead of with ordinary mushrooms.</p>
		<h3 id="1274" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANQUETTE de VEAU aux CELERIS,</h3>
		<p>CARDONS, ETC.</p>
		<p>Prepare the blanquette exactly as explained above, and set itto cook with the veal and the vegetable selected for the garnish,</p>
		<p>i.e., either small heads of celery cut into two or four, or car-doons, cut into pieces and well blanched. The endives are notblanched; they need only be well washed and put with the veal.</p>
		<p>When cooked, drain the vegetables, trim them, and dishthem in a timbale with the veal and the sauce; the latter pre-pared as directed and strained over the meat.</p>
		<h3 id="1275" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANQUETTE de VEAU aux NOUILLES</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Blanquette &amp; l’ancienne,” but suppress thegarnish of onions and mushrooms.</p>
		<p>When the blanquette is dished, set thereon heaps of noodles, parboiled and cohered with butter, and cover these with rawnoodles tossed quickly in butter; allow three oz. of tossednoodles per lb. of those cohered.</p>
		<h3 id="1276" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRICASSEE de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Fricassee differs from blanquette in this, namely, that thepieces of veal in the former are stiffened in butter without colour-ation.</p>
		<p>When the meat has been well stiffened, besprinkle it withabout one oz. of flour per lb.; cook this flour with the meat fora few minutes; then moisten the fricassee with white stock;season, and set to boil, stirring the while. All the garnishesof mushrooms and vegetables given for blanquette may beserved with fricassee; but in the case of the latter, both the meatand the garnish are cooked in the sauce, the leason of whichis effected by means of egg-yolks and cream, as for blanquette.</p>
		<h3 id="1277" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRICADELLES</h3>
		<p>Fricadelles are a kind of meat balls, somewhat like thosecommonly prepared in private households. They are madefrom raw or cooked meat, in the following manner: —</p>
		<p>Fricadelles with Raw Meat.—For ten fricadelles, eachweighing three and one-half oz., chop up one lb. of very leanveal, cleared of all fat and gristle, together with two-thirds of alb. of butter. Put the whole into a bowl, and add theretofive oz. of soaked and well-pressed crumb of bread, two eggs, half an oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper and a little nutmeg, andtwo oz. of chopped onion cooked in butter without colouration.</p>
		<p>Mix the whole well, and divide it up into portions weighingthree and one-half oz.</p>
		<p>Fashion these portions to the shape of quoits, by first rollingthem into balls on a flour-dusted board, and afterwards flatteningthem out with the flat of a knife.</p>
		<p>Heat some butter or very pure fat in a sauté-pan; put the</p>
		<p>fricadelles therein; brown them on both sides, and then com-plete their cooking in the oven.</p>
		<p>This done, set them on a round dish, and serve them, either with a vegetable purée, a Piquante or a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#52">Robert Sauce</a>.</p>
		<p>Fricadelles with Cooked Meat.—For ten fricadelles, eachweighing two and one-half oz., chop one lb. of cooked veal, fat and lean, somewhat finely.</p>
		<p>Put it into a bowl with a large pinch of salt, another ofpepper, and a little nutmeg. Add the pulp of three fair-sizedpotatoes, baked in the oven; three oz. of chopped onions, cookedin butter without colouration; one large egg, and one table-spoonful of chopped parsley. Mix well; divide up into portionsof the weight already given, and shape and cook them as inthe previous case.</p>
		<p>These fricadelles are served with vegetable purées and thesauces suited to those prepared from raw meat.</p>
		<h3 id="1278" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAUPIETTES de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Paupiettes or scrolls are made from extremely thin slices ofveal, four in. long by two in. wide. After having seasoned them, cover them with forcemeat or very fine mincemeat; roll them, with their forcemeat-coat inside, into scrolls, and tie themround, once or twice, with string, that they may keep theirshape while cooking. They are sometimes covered with thinrashers of bacon. Paupiettes are always braised, gently andprotractedly.</p>
		<p>They are generally garnished with vegetable purées; butthey may be served just as well with all vegetable garnishes.</p>
		<p>By making them half the usual size, they may, after havingbeen braised, serve as the garnish for a timbale, together withnoodles, gniokis, spaghetti, or with Financi&amp;re, Milanaise orNapolitaine garnish, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="1279" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sautés de Veau</h3>
		<p>The pieces best suited to veal sautés are: the breast and the shoulder, as also those parts of the haunch other than thecushion and undercushion.</p>
		<h3 id="1280" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sauté de VEAU à la MARENGO</h3>
		<p>Heat one pint of oil in a sauté-pan, until it smokes. Puttherein two lbs. of veal, cut into pieces, each weighing two oz., and fry until the latter are well set. Add a chopped half onionand a crushed half-clove of garlic, and fry again for a fewmoments.</p>
		<p>Drain away the oil, tilting the sauté-pan with its lid on, for</p>
		<p>the purpose; moisten with a quarter of a pint of white wine;reduce, and add two-thirds of a quart of thin Espagnole sauce, one and one-half lbs. of tomatoes, pressed and cut into pieces(or one pint of tomato sauce), and a faggot.</p>
		<p>Set to boil, and cook in the oven gently for one and one-halfhours.</p>
		<p>At the end of that time, transfer the pieces of veal, one byone, to another saucepan with fifteen small glazed onions, andfive oz. of mushrooms. Reduce the sauce; strain it over theveal and its garnish, add two large pinches of concassed parsley, and cook for a further quarter of an hour.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, clear of all grease, dish in a timbale, and surround with small heart-shaped croutons of bread-crumb, fried in oil.</p>
		<h3 id="1281" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUT6 de veau chasseur</h3>
		<p>Cut the veal into pieces as above, and fry these well inbutter or oil.</p>
		<p>Drain away the grease; moisten with one quart of brownstock, add two tablespoonfuls of tomato purée, and a faggot;set to boil, and cook in the oven gently for one and one-halfhours.</p>
		<p>Transfer the pieces to another saucepan; strain; reduce their cooking-liquor by a quarter, and add it to one-quarter of a pint of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#33">Chasseur sauce</a>.</p>
		<p>Pour this sauce over the pieces of veal, and cook againfor a quarter of an hour. Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle withchopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1282" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sauté de VEAU PRINTANIER</h3>
		<p>Fry the pieces of veal in butter. Moisten with two-thirds ofa quart of brown stock and one-fifth of a pint of half-glaze; adda faggot; boil, and cook in the oven gently for one hour.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the pieces to another saucepan; addthereto a garnish of carrots, new turnips, and small, new pota-toes; strain the sauce over the veal and the garnish, and cookfor a further three-quarters of an hour.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale and distribute over the sauté a few table-spoonfuls of peas and French beans in lozenge-form, bothcooked a Vanglaise.</p>
		<h3 id="1283" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sauté de VEAU à la CATALANS</h3>
		<p>Cut up, sauté, and cook the veal gently for one and one-halfhours, as for №1280.</p>
		<p>Transfer the pieces of veal to another saucepan, and add</p>
		<p>to them three small peeled and pressed tomatoes, quarteredand tossed in butter; ten small onions cooked in butter; six oz. of raw, quartered mushrooms; ten chestnuts, three-parts cookedin consommé, and eight Chipolata sausages.</p>
		<p>Reduce the sauce to one-third of a pint; strain it over theveal and its garnish; cook for a further quarter of an hour, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1284" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sautés de Veau Divers</h3>
		<p>Veal sauté may also be prepared with mushrooms, finesherbes, egg-plant, tomatoes, or “Currie h l’lndienne,” <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="1285" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAIN de VEAU</h3>
		<p>Prepare “<a href="#1252">Pain de Veau</a>” exactly as directed; but substitute for the liver some very white veal.</p>
		<p>Pain de veau is generally accompanied by a white sauce, such as velout£ prepared with mushroom essence, Allemande sauce prepared with mushrooms, Supreme sauce, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="1286" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CALF’S FEET</h3>
		<p>Calf’s feet serve chiefly in supplying the gelatinous elementof aspics, and the body of braising stock. They are rarelyused in the preparation of a special dish; but, should they beso used, they may be cooked and served after the mannerdirected in the recipes treating of calf’s head.</p>
		<h3 id="1287" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CALVES’ TONGUES</h3>
		<p>Provided the difference of size be allowed for, calf’s tonguemay be prepared like ox tongue, and served with the samegarnishes. (See Ox Tongue, Nos. 1153 to 1158 inclusive.)</p>
		<h3 id="1288" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CALF’S BRAINS and AMOURETTES</h3>
		<p>Calf’s brains form the most wholesome and reparative dietfor all those who are debilitated by excessive head-work; andthe same remark applies to the brains of the ox and the sheep.</p>
		<p>The amourettes mentioned here, which almost alwaysaccompany ox brains, are only the spinal marrow of the ox orthe calf. This may be used in the preparation of a few specialdishes; but all the recipes dealing with brains may be appliedto it.</p>
		<h3 id="1289" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE COOKING of BRAINS</h3>
		<p>Carefully remove the membrane enveloping the brains or theamourettes, and put them to soak in fresh water, until they arequite white. Put the brains in a saucepan with enough boiling</p>
		<p>court-bouillon (№163) to cover them well; skim and then setto cook gently.</p>
		<p>Brains have this peculiarity, namely, that prolongedcooking only stiffens them; thus, calf’s brains only take halfan hour to cook; but they may cook for two hours more withoutharm, seeing that the process only tends to make them firmer.</p>
		<h3 id="1290" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE à la BEAUMONT</h3>
		<p>Cut the brains into slices; on each slice put a layer of gratinforce-meat (№202) prepared from foie gras and softened bymeans of a little cold, brown sauce, and a slice of truffle. Re-construct the brains by putting the coated slices together again.</p>
		<p>Roll some puff-paste remains into a galette one-fifth of aninch thick, the diameter of which should be in proportion tothe size of the brains under treatment. Put the brains in themiddle of the galette, and cover them with the same forcemeatas that laid on the slices; sprinkle with chopped truffles; moistenthe edges of the paste, and draw these over the brains so as toenclose the latter completely.</p>
		<p>Gild; make a slit in the top for the escape of steam, andbake in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. After taking thepie out of the oven, pour a few tablespoonfuls of Périgueuxsauce into the former, and dish on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1291" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE au BEURRE NOIR</h3>
		<p>Slice the brains; set the slices on a dish, and season themwith salt and pepper.</p>
		<p>Cook two oz. of butter in the frying-pan until it is slightlyblackened; throw therein a pinch of parsley pluches, andsprinkle the brains with this butter. Pour a few drops ofvinegar into the burning frying-pan, and add it to the brains.</p>
		<h3 id="1292" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE au BEURRE NOISETTE</h3>
		<p>Slice and season the brains as above. Cook the butter untilit has acquired a golden colour and exhales a nutty smell; pourit over the brains, and finish with a few drops of lemon juiceand a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1293" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE à la MARECHALE</h3>
		<p>Cut the brains into regular slices, one-third of an inch thicktreat them a Vanglaise with very fine bread-crumbs, and brownthem in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a circle, with a slice of truffle oneach, and garnish the centre of the dish with a fine heap ofasparagus-heads cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1294" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE à la POULETTE</h3>
		<p>Prepare half a pint of poulette sauce (№101), combinedwith three oz. of small, cooked, and very white mushrooms.</p>
		<p>Add the brains, cut into slices; toss them gently in the sauce, taking care lest they break; dish them in a timbale, andsprinkle with a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1295" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERVELLE à la VILLEROY</h3>
		<p>Cut the raw brains into slices; season them, and poach themin butter.</p>
		<p>Dip the slices into an almost cold Villeroy sauce, in suchwiseas to cover them with a thick coating of it. Leave to cool, andtreat them a Vanglaise. Set to cook for a few minutes beforeserving, and dish on a napkin with fried parsley.</p>
		<p>Serve a light Périgueux sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1296" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VOL au VENT de CERVELLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a vol-au-vent crust, as explained under №2390.Slice the brains, and put the slices into half-a-pint of Allemandesauce, with twelve quenelles of ordinary forcemeat, poached justbefore dishing up; four oz. of small, cooked mushrooms, andone oz. of truffle slices, five or six of which should be reserved.</p>
		<p>Pour the garnish into the vol au vent; set upon the latter thereserved slices of truffle, and dish on a folded napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1297" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AMOURETTES à la TOSCA</h3>
		<p>Poach one lb. of amourettes, as explained above, and cutthem into lengths of one in.</p>
		<p>Prepare a garnish of macaroni cohered with butter and gratedParmesan, and add thereto four tablespoonfuls of a crayfishcullis per four oz. of macaroni; three crayfishes’ tails for eachperson, and two-thirds of the pieces of amourettes. Toss well, in order to thoroughly mix the whole; dish in a timbale; coverthe macaroni with what remains of the pieces of amourettes, andcover them slightly with crayfish cullis.</p>
				<p>MUTTON, GRASS LAMB and HOUSE LAMB</p>
		<p>Releves and Entrees.</p>
		<p>From the culinary standpoint, the ovine species suppliesthree kinds of meat, viz: —</p>
		<p>Mutton—properly so-called when the meat is derived fromthe adult animal.</p>
		<p>Lamb—the young, weaned sheep, not yet fully grown, themeat of which is the more highly esteemed the younger theanimal is.</p>
		<p>House Lamb—the sheep’s unweaned young that has not yetgrazed.</p>
		<p>The “Pauillac” lamb, which is imported from France, isthe most excellent example of the last kind. Good house lambsare also killed in England; they are quite equal to Pauillaclamb, but their season is short. As regards ordinary Englishmutton and lamb, however, the delicacy and quality of thesemeats are unrivalled.</p>
		<p>But for its greater delicacy and tenderness, grass lamb, which corresponds with what the French call “agneau de pr£-sal6” is scarcely distinguishable from mutton. The recipessuited to it are the same as those given for mutton; and all thatis necessary is to allow for differences of quality in calculatingthe time of cooking.</p>
		<p>House lamb, the white flesh of which is quite different, admits of some of the mutton recipes; but it is generally pre-pared after special formulae, the details of which I shall givehereafter.</p>
		<p>When served roasted, hot or cold, mutton and grass andhouse lamb are always accompanied by mint sauce, the recipefor which I gave under №136.</p>
		<p>In view of the similarity of their preparations, and in orderto avoid finicking repetitions, I have refrained from giving sepa-rate recipes for lamb and mutton respectively. The reader willtherefore bear in mind that the formula relating to mutton alsoapply to grass lamb.</p>
		<h3 id="1298" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SADDLE of MUTTON</h3>
		<h3 id="1299" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BARON or PAIR of HIND-QUARTERS of MUTTON</h3>
		<h3 id="1300" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DOUBLE or PAIR of LEGS of MUTTON</h3>
		<h3 id="1301" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FILLETS of MUTTON</h3>
		<h3 id="1302" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NECK of MUTTON (Relevés)</h3>
		<p>Saddle of mutton is that part of the sheep which reaches fromthe bone of the haunch to the floating ribs.</p>
		<p>Baron of mutton comprises the saddle and the two legs, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, a pair of hind-quarters.</p>
		<p>Double consists of the two unseparated legs, minus thesaddle.</p>
		<p>The Baron and the Double are almost always cuts of lamb.</p>
		<p>The fillet is one half of the saddle, when the latter is cutinto two, lengthwise; that is to say, divided down the middle insuchwise as to bisect the spinal column. These fillets are some-times boned, rolled over with the kernel of meat in the centre, and strung, in which case the skin should be removed beforerolling. Saddle of mutton, before being roasted, should becleared of all its superfluous underlying fat; and the flanksshould be so shortened as to just meet when drawn over thefillets. The overlying skin should be removed, and the saddleshould be strung in five or six places to keep it in shape.</p>
		<p>In the case of a saddle of lamb, the skin need not be com-pletely removed, but slit in various places. As to neck ofmutton, this should be shortened as for the cutting of ordinarycutlets; the skin and the bones of the chine should be removed, as also the meat at the end of the rib-bones, down to two-thirdsin. from the extremity of each. The cushion is then coveredwith slices of bacon, tied on with string.</p>
		<p>When the piece is roasted and dished, a frill should beplaced on the end of each bared bone. Neck of mutton oughtnever to comprise more than nine to ten ribs, counting from thefloating ones; it should consist of rather less if anything.</p>
		<p>Mutton Relevés allow more particularly of vegetable and ricegarnishes.</p>
		<p>Garnishes with sauces do not suit them so well, even whenthe pieces are braised. As for paste garnishes, such asmacaroni, noodles, gniokis; they are seldom used.</p>
		<p>Garnishes for mutton relevés should therefore be chosen, inpreference, from among the following, the details of which Igave under “Filet de Bœuf” (Nos. 1044 to I074) and which Irecall hereafter: —</p>
		<p>Andalouse, Bouquetiere, Chatelaine, Clamart, Dauphine,</p>
		<p>Dubarry, Duchesse, Japonaise, Jardiniere, Lorette, Macedoine, Montmorency, Moderne, Nivernaise, Orientate, Petit-Due, Provençale, Renaissance, Richelieu, St. Germain.</p>
		<p>Apart from these compound garnishes, the following simplegarnishes also suit admirably, either alone, or separated bysome kind of potato preparation: —</p>
		<p>Braised Lettuce, stuffed with ordinary forcemeat or rice.</p>
		<p>Cabbages, moulded to the shape of small balls, braised andstuffed with fine mince-meat or rice.</p>
		<p>Haricot-beans, Peas and Broad-beans, cohered with butter,</p>
		<p>Asparagus-heads, white or green, cooked and cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>Celery, Endives, and Chicory, all braised. Brussels Sprouts, Cauliflowers, Brocoli, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Finally, the garnishes and modes of preparation termed: à l’Anglaise, a la Boulangere, Braises, Marine en Chevreuit, which I give below for the leg and the shoulder, may be appliedperfectly well to other large pieces of mutton.</p>
		<h3 id="1303" class="formula">Large Cold Joints of Mutton</h3>
		<p>Refer to Cold Beef; in all cases keep the dishing simple.</p>
		<p>The garnishing is optional.</p>
		<h3 id="1304" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LEG and SHOULDER of MUTTON</h3>
		<p>Legs of mutton or lamb ought never to appear on any butan ordinary luncheon menu. Although, strictly speaking, theyshould always be served after one of the ways described here-after, all the garnishes given above may be applied to them.</p>
		<p>Shoulders may be roasted whole; but they may also beboned, seasoned inside, rolled up, and firmly strung. Theymay be treated like the legs, and the same garnishes are suitedto them.</p>
		<h3 id="1305" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GIGOT BOUILLI A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Trim the leg, shorten it in the region of the tibia bone, andplunge it into a stewpan of boiling water, salted in the propor-tion of one-third oz. of salt per quart of water.</p>
		<p>For an ordinary leg, add: three medium-sized carrots, twoonions, each stuck with a clove, a faggot, and two cloves ofgarlic.</p>
		<p>Let the leg cook for a quarter of an hour for each two lbs. ofits weight.</p>
		<p>Dish with vegetables all round, and serve at tht same timea butter sauce with capers.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Leg of mutton a Vanglaise may be accompanied by</p>
		<p>F F</p>
		<p>purees of turnips, celery, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and these vegetables should cookwith the meat. A purée of potatoes or of haricot beans may besent to the table with the meat; but, in this case, of course, thevegetables would be served separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1306" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRAISED LEG of MUTTON</h3>
		<p>Suppress the pelvic bone, shorten the end bone and brownthe leg in the oven.</p>
		<p>Now, put it in an oval utensil, garnished for braising; addjust enough white stock to barely cover the joint, and cookgently, allowing forty minutes per lb. of meat.</p>
		<p>Transfer the leg to a tray; strain the braising-liquor; clearit of all grease, and reduce it to half. Sprinkle the meat witha few tablespoonfuls of this reduced gravy, and set it to glazein the oven.</p>
		<p>Serve at the same time: —</p>
		<p>(1) Either a purée of potatoes, of turnips, of haricot-beans, ofcauliflower,*<abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, or</p>
		<p>(2) The reduced braising-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1307" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GIGOT à la BOULANGERE</h3>
		<p>The leg may either be boned, seasoned inside and strung; orthe end-bone may simply be shortened and that of the pelvisremoved.</p>
		<p>In either case, put it in an earthenware dish, and brown itwell in the oven, on both sides; then complete its cooking, allbut a third.</p>
		<p>This done, set round the joint four large, sliced onions, justtossed in butter, that they may acquire some colour, and eightlarge, peeled potatoes cut into roundels one half in. thick.Sprinkle this garnish with the grease of the joint, and then com-plete the cooking of the leg and its garnish.</p>
		<p>Serve in the dish in which the joint has cooked.</p>
		<h3 id="1308" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GIGOT MARINE en CHEVREUIL</h3>
		<p>Shorten the end-bone; remove the bone of the pelvis, andskin the top of the leg, leaving the meat in that region quitebare. Lard with very small strips of bacon, and put the meatinto a marinade prepared after the manner described under №170. The length of its stay in the marinade should be basedupon the tenderness of the meat and atmospheric conditions.In winter the time averages about three or four days, and insummer two days.</p>
		<p>To Roast the Joint.—Withdraw it from the marinade anddry it thoroughly; set it on a stand in the baking-tray; and put</p>
		<p>it into a very fierce oven, that the meat may set immediately.The object of the very fierce oven is to prevent the juicesabsorbed from the marinade escaping in steam and therebyhardening the meat.</p>
		<p>Towards the close of the operation, rissole the larding baconwell.</p>
		<p>Set on a long dish; fix a frill to the bone, and serve a Chev-reuil sauce separately.</p>
		<p>Chevreuil Sauce a la Frangaise.—With the marinade of thejoint and a Mirepoix with ham, prepare a sufficient quantity ofPoivrade sauce (№49) to obtain two-thirds of a pint of it afterit has been strained through a colander—an operation whichshould be effected with the application of great pressure to thearomatics.</p>
		<p>Despumate this sauce for thirty minutes, and add, little bylittle, half a wine-glassful of excellent red wine. Finish the sea-soning with a little cayenne and a pinch of powdered sugar, and once more rub the whole through tammy or a fine strainer.</p>
		<h3 id="1309" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QIQOT à la SOUBISE</h3>
		<p>Braise the leg of mutton as shown under №247. When itis two-thirds done, transfer it to another utensil; strain thebraising-liquor over it, and add thereto three lbs. of sliced onionsand two-third lb. of rice.</p>
		<p>Gently complete the cooking of the joint, together with theonions and the rice. This done:—(1) put it on a baking-trayand glaze it in the oven; (2) quickly rub the onions and the ricethrough a fine sieve or tammy.</p>
		<p>Set the leg of mutton on a long dish; put a frill on thebone, and serve, separately, the well-heated Soubise, finishedwith one oz. of butter.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—This Soubise may be prepared separately; but in thiscase it has much less flavour than when it is made from theonions and the rice which have cooked in the braising-liquor. I therefore urge the adoption of the recipe as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1310" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COLD LEG of MUTTON</h3>
		<p>Dish it very simply, like other cold large joints of mutton.</p>
		<h3 id="1311" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUTLETS</h3>
		<p>Mutton and lamb cutlets are sometimes sautéd; but grillingis the most suitable method of cooking them. When the natureof their preparation requires that they should be treated dVanglaise, fry them in clarified butter. All the garnishes, given</p>
		<p>f r 2</p>
		<p>*36</p>
		<p>under “Tournedos,” except those served with sauces, may beapplied to cutlets.</p>
		<p>The latter also allow of a few special garnishes, and these Igive in the following recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="1312" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes à la Champvallon (10 Cutlets)</h3>
		<p>Take some cutlets from the region underlying the shoulder;that is to say, those uncovered by the removal of this joint. And do not clear the bone-ends of their meat, as when frills areto be fixed to them.</p>
		<p>Season them with salt and pepper, and brown them in butteron both sides. This done, put them in an earthenware dish withhalf lb. of sliced onions, tossed in butter without colouration;moisten with enough white stock to almost cover the cutlets andthe onions; add the quarter of a clove of garlic, crushed, and afaggot; boil, and set in the oven. At the end of twentyminutes, add one and one-half lbs. of potatoes, fashioned tothe shape of corks, and cut into thin roundels; season, andcomplete the cooking, basting often the while.</p>
		<p>When the cutlets are cooked, the moistening should be almostentirely reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="1313" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">C^TELETTES LAURA</h3>
		<p>Grill the cutlets, and, meanwhile, prepare a garnish (thequantity of which should be such as to allow two and one-halfoz. of it per cutlet) of parboiled macaroni, cut into half-inchlengths, cohered with cream, and combined, per lb., with threeand one-half oz. of peeled, pressed, and concassed tomatoes, tossed in butter.</p>
		<p>Or, when white truffles are in season, prepare some macaroniwith cream, as above, combined with the peelings of raw, whitetruffles.</p>
		<p>Cut some very soft pig’s caul into triangles, proportionate insize to the cutlets; spread a little macaroni on each triangle; onthe latter set a cutlet; cover the cutlets with some more macaroni, and enclose the whole in the caul. Lay the cutlets on a dish.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with fine raspings and melted butter, and set togrill at the salamander, or in a fierce oven, for seven or eightminutes.</p>
		<p>Dish the cutlets in the form of a crown, and surround themwith a thread of clear half-glaze sauce, combined with tomatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="1314" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">cOtelettes a la maintenon</h3>
		<p>Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. This done, puta heaped tablespoonful of a Maintenon preparation (№226)</p>
		<p>on each; shape it like a dome, by means of the blade of a smallknife dipped in tepid water, and put the cutlets, one by one, on a tray. The Maintenon preparation should be laid on thecooked side of each cutlet and sprinkled with fine raspings andmelted butter. Now put the cutlets in a rather hot oven forseven or eight minutes in order to: —</p>
		<p>(1) Allow a gratin to form over the surface of the garnish.</p>
		<p>(2) Finish the cooking of the cutlets.</p>
		<p>Dish the latter in the form of a crown, and serve, separately, a sauceboat of meat glaze finished with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1315" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTELETTES à la MURILLO</h3>
		<p>Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only; and garnish thecooked side, dome-fashion, with a fine hash of mushrooms, cohered with a little very reduced Bechamel sauce.</p>
		<p>Set them on a tray; sprinkle with grated Parmesan and afew drops of melted butter, and glaze in a fierce oven. Dishthe cutlets in the form of a crown; fix a frill to each, and sur-round them with mild capsicums and tomatoes, both of whichshould be sliced, tossed in butter, and mixed.</p>
		<h3 id="1316" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes a la Provençale</h3>
		<p>For ten cutlets:—(1) Reduce one-half pint of Bechamel sauceto a third, and add thereto the third of a garlic clove, crushed, and the yolks of three eggs; (2) prepare at the same time asthe cutlets, ten grilled mushrooms; and ten stoned, stuffed andpoached olives, girded by a strip of anchovy fillet.</p>
		<p>Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. Cover thecooked side of each with the preparation described above; setthem on a tray; sprinkle them with a few drops of melted butter, and put them in the oven, that their garnish may be glazedand that their cooking may be completed.</p>
		<p>Dish in the form of a circle; place a grilled mushroom(convex side uppermost) in the middle of each cutlet, and, on each mushroom, a stuffed olive.</p>
		<h3 id="1316a" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelette5 de Mouton à la Réforme</h3>
		<p>Trim six mutton cutlets; season them; dip them in meltedbutter, and roll them in bread-crumbs, combined with finely-chopped ham in the proportion of a third of the weight of thebread-crumbs. Now cook them gently in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle on a hot dish, and send the followingsauce to the table with them: —</p>
		<p>Take a small saucepan, and mix therein three tablespoon-fuls of half-glaze sauce, the same quantity of Poivrade sauce,</p>
		<p>43«</p>
		<p>and one coffeespoonful of red-currant jelly; add one coffee-spoonful of each of the following short julienne garnishes tothe sauce; <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>: hard-boiled white of egg; very red, saltedtongue; gherkins; mushrooms, and truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1317" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelette5 à la Séivigné</h3>
		<p>Have ready a preparation of mushroom and artichoke-bottom croquettes, in the proportion of one heaped tablespoonfulfor each cutlet.</p>
		<p>Fry the cutlets in butter, on one side only. Garnish thefried side of each, dome-fashion, with the above preparation;treat them a. Vanglaise, and sprinkle them with melted butter.</p>
		<p>Put them in the oven to complete their cooking, and, atthe same time, to colour their coating of egg and bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>Dish in the form of a crown.</p>
		<h3 id="1318" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes à la Suédoise</h3>
		<p>Place the cutlets on a dish, and drop thereon some mincedonions and shallots, bits of parsley stalks, thyme and bay.Sprinkle them with the juice of a lemon and a few drops ofoil, and leave them to marinade for thirty minutes, turningdiem over the while, from time to time.</p>
		<p>This done, dry them; dip them in melted butter, sprinklethem with bread-crumbs, and grill them.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, and garnish the centreof the dish with the following, which may also be sent separ-ately: one-half lb. of peeled and finely-sliced apples, quicklystewed to a purée with the third of a wineglassful of whitewine. When about to serve, add to this purée two and one-half oz. of finely-grated horse-radish, or the latter grated andafterwards finely chopped.</p>
		<h3 id="1319" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes en Belle Vue</h3>
		<p>Proceed after one of the recipes given for veal cutlets andgrenadins “en Belle Vue.”</p>
		<h3 id="1320" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes en Chaudfroid</h3>
		<p>Cut some very regular cutlets from a neck of mutton orlamb, which should have been trimmed as explained, braised, and left to cook in its braising-liquor. Clear all grease fromthe latter; strain it; reduce it, and add to it a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#34">brown chaud-froid sauce</a> (№34).</p>
		<p>Dip the cutlets in the sauce when it is almost cold; setthem on a tray; deck the kernel of meat in each with a fine slice</p>
		<p>of truffle, and sprinkle with cold, melted aspic. When thesauce has set well, pass the point of a small knife round thecutlets, with the view of removing the superfluous sauce; andeither dish them round a vegetable salad, cohered and moulded, or simply dish them in the form of a circle and place a pyramidof cohered, vegetable salad in their midst.</p>
		<h3 id="1321" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOISETTES de MOUTON</h3>
		<p>Mutton noisettes, and especially those of lamb, may beclassed among the choicest of entries. They are cut from eitherthe fillet or the neck; but, in the latter case, only the first sixor seven ribs are used.</p>
		<p>Noisettes are grilled or sautéd, and all the recipes given forTournedos (Nos. 1077 to 1139) and for cutlets, may be appliedto them.</p>
		<h3 id="1322" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MINION FILLETS</h3>
		<p>The minion fillets of mutton or lamb consist of the twomuscles which lie under the saddle. Their mode of preparationchanges according to their size. Thus, if they are small, theyare served whole, after having been trimmed, sometimes larded;and sautéd.</p>
		<p>If they are large, they are divided into two or three parts, cut laterally and aslant; they are flattened, trimmed to the shapeof ellipses, seasoned, dipped in melted butter, sprinkled withfine bread-crumbs, and finally, gently grilled.</p>
		<p>Minion fillets of beef, obtained from the narrow extremityor head of the fillet, are also used occasionally; and these aregenerally flattened, dipped in butter and fine bread-crumbs, andgrilled.</p>
		<p>These fillets are served chiefly with vegetable purées or with macedoines of fresh vegetables.</p>
		<p>The sauces best suited to them are the <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#62">Béarnaise</a> and the <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#52">Robert Escoffier</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1323" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SHEEP’S TONGUES</h3>
		<p>Salted or fresh sheep’s tongues make an excellent luncheonentree.</p>
		<p>They are cooked after the manner of ox and calf’s tongues, due allowance being made for the difference of size.</p>
		<p>The various garnishes given for ox and calf’s tongues mayalso be used in this case.</p>
		<h3 id="1324" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SHEEP’S TROTTERS</h3>
		<p>Sheep’s trotters, as they reach us from the purveyor, shouldfirst be well singed over spirits of wine, and then rubbed witha clean piece of linen. The little tuft of hair in the cleft of</p>
		<p>the hoof is next removed, the hoof itself is suppressed, andthe trotters are split open lengthwise and boned. Sheep’strotters are cooked like calf’s feet, in the special court-bouillonor blanc, given under №167.</p>
		<p>*325—FRITOT of SHEEP’S TROTTERS</p>
		<p>Fifteen minutes before frying them, put the sheep’s trottersinto a receptacle with lemon juice, a few drops of oil and somechopped parsley; keeping the quantity of these ingredients inproportion to the number of trotters. Be careful to toss thelatter from time to time in the marinade.</p>
		<p>A few moments before serving, dip the half-trotters intobatter (№232) and plunge them into an abundant and hotfrying-medium.</p>
		<p>Drain them when the batter is nicely dry and golden; anddish on a napkin with a border of very green fried parsley.</p>
		<p>Serve a tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1326" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PIEDS de MOUTON POULETTE</h3>
		<p>For this dish the trotters should, as far as possible, befreshly cooked. For twenty trotters prepare two-thirds of a pintof poulette sauce; add the trotters thereto, well drained; tossthem in the sauce, and dish them in a timbale with a sprinklingof chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1327" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PIEDS de MOUTON ROUENNAISE</h3>
		<p>Instead of cooking the sheep’s trotters in a blanc, braisethem; add a little Madeira to their braising-liquor, and cookthem thoroughly.</p>
		<p>Prepare a forcemeat, consisting of one and one-half lbs. ofvery fine sausage-meat; three oz. of chopped onions, cooked inbutter without colouration, and a large pinch of parsley.</p>
		<p>When the trotters are cooked, transfer them to a dish;almost entirely reduce their braising-liquor; add to this twoliqueur-glassfuls of burnt brandy, for each ten trotters, and addthis reduced braising-liquor to the forcemeat. Cut ten rect-angles six inches long by four inches wide out of pig’s caul.</p>
		<p>Spread a tablespoonful of forcemeat over each; set twotrotters on the forcemeat of each rectangle; cover up with force-meat, and draw the ends of the caul together in suchwise asto enclose the whole.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with bread-crumbs and melted butter; grill gently, and serve.</p>
		<h3 id="1328" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PIEDS de MOUTON TYROLIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cook a fair-sized chopped onion in butter, together withthree peeled, pressed, and roughly-chopped tomatoes. Seasonwith salt and pepper; add a pinch of chopped parsley, a littlecrushed garlic, one-sixth of a pint of Poivrade sauce, and twentyfreshly-cooked and well-drained sheep’s trotters.</p>
		<p>Simmer for ten minutes and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1329" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MUTTON KIDNEYS</h3>
		<p>Mutton kidneys are either grilled or sautéd. When they areto be grilled, first remove the fine skin enveloping them, cutthem in halves, without completely severing them on their con-cave side, and impale them on a small skewer, with the viewof keeping them open during the grilling operation. Beforegrilling they may or may not be dipped in melted butter androlled in bread-crumb.</p>
		<p>When they are to be sautéd, clear the kidneys, as before, of the thin skin which envelops them; cut them into halves, and then into slices one-quarter in. thick.</p>
		<p>Kidneys, of what kind soever, should be cooked very quickly, otherwise they harden. After having seasoned them, put theminto very hot butter, and toss them over a fierce fire in orderto stiffen them. This done, drain them; and let them standfor a few minutes, that they may exude the blood they contain, which sometimes has a distinct ammoniacal smell.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, swill the utensil in which they have been sautéd, and finish the sauce, to which they are added when dishingup. Never let the kidneys boil in the sauce, for they wouldimmediately harden.</p>
		<h3 id="1330" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons 5AUTES BERCY</h3>
		<p>Slice, season, and quickly toss the mutton kidneys in butter, and drain them.</p>
		<p>For six kidneys put one tablespoonful of finely-choppedshallots into the saucepan, and just heat it. Moisten with one-sixth of a pint of white wine; reduce to half; add two table-spoonfuls of melted meat glaze, and a few drops of lemon-juice, and put the kidneys in this sauce. Add two and one-half oz. of butter, cut into small pieces; melt this on the cornerof the stove, tossing and rolling the pan the while; dish in atimbale, and sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over thekidneys.</p>
		<h3 id="1331" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés Bordelaise’ Fry the mutton kidneys, and drain them as above.</h3>
		<p>Put into the saucepan one-third of a pint of Bordelaise sauce</p>
		<p>combined with poached dice of marrow, a pinch of choppedparsley, and three oz. of sliced cbpes, tossed in butter and oiland well drained.</p>
		<p>Return the kidneys to the saucepan; toss them in the sauce, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1332" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés Carvalho</h3>
		<p>Fry the skinned, halved and seasoned mutton kidneys inbutter, and dish them, each on a small crouton of bread-crumb, cut to the shape of a cock’s comb and fried in butter. On eachhalf-kidney, set a small cooked mushroom and a slice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with Madeira; add a little half-glaze; putin a small quantity of butter, away from the fire, and pour thissauce over the kidneys.</p>
		<h3 id="1333" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés au Champagne</h3>
		<p>Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys; cut themin two lengthwise; season them; fry them quickly in butter, anddish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with one-half pint of champagne per sixkidneys; reduce almost entirely; add two tablespoonfuls ofmelted meat glaze; add a small quantity of butter, and pourthis sauce over the kidneys.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The preparation of kidneys sautéd with wine alwaysfollows the same principle; that is to say, the saucepan in whichthe kidneys have cooked is always swilled with a quantity ofwine, in proportion to the number of kidneys; a proportionateamount of meat glaze is then added, and after the sauce has beenslightly buttered, the kidneys are tossed in it.</p>
		<h3 id="1334" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés HONQROISE</h3>
		<p>Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys; cut theminto halves; slice and season them; fry them in butter, anddrain them.</p>
		<p>In the saucepan that has served in the cooking of thekidneys, fry a chopped onion with butter, and add thereto apinch of paprika.</p>
		<p>Moisten with a tablespoonful of cream, and reduce; addone-sixth of a pint of velout6, boil for a moment, and rubthrough tammy.</p>
		<p>Heat this sauce; put the kidneys into it, toss them for aminute, so as to heat without boiling them, and dish in atimbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1335" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés Chasseur</h3>
		<p>Quickly fry the sliced mutton kidneys in butter and drainthem.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with white wine and almost entirelyreduce; add one-third of a pint of Chausseur sauce for each sixkidneys; put the kidneys in this sauce, toss them for an instant;dish them in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of choppedparsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1336" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés à d’Indienne</h3>
		<p>For six mutton kidneys: fry a chopped onion in butter andadd a large pinch of curry thereto. Moisten with one-sixth pintof velout6; cook for a few minutes, and rub through tammy.</p>
		<p>Clear the kidneys of their outer skin; slice and season them, and fry them quickly in butter. Put them into the sauce; dishthem in a timbalej and serve some rice “k l’lndienne” sepa-rately.</p>
		<h3 id="1337" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rognons Sautés TURBIGO</h3>
		<p>Clear the mutton kidneys of their outer skin and cut them inhalves; season them; fry them quickly in butter, and dish themin a circle in a timbale.</p>
		<p>In their midst set a garnish of small, cooked mushrooms, andgrilled chipolata sausages; and pour thereon a highly-seasoned, tomatéd half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1338" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE aux ROGNONS</h3>
		<p>Cut some crusts two and one-half in. in diameter and oneand one-third in. thick, from a tin-loaf, and allow one for eachperson. Remove the crumb from their inside, leaving only aslight thickness at the bottom; butter them, and dry them inthe oven.</p>
		<p>Garnish these crusts with mutton kidneys sautéd with mush-rooms, and combined with small, ordinary forcemeat quenelles, and slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin, and serve very hot.</p>
		<p>•339—TURBAN de ROGNONS à la PIEMONTAISE</p>
		<p>Garnish a border or a Savarin-mould with “rizotto à la Pidmontaise,” press the latter lightly into the utensil, and keepthe mould hot.</p>
		<p>Clear the mutton kidneys of their outer skin; cut them intohalves; season them, and fry them quickly in butter.</p>
		<p>Turn out on a round dish, set the half-kidneys in a circleon the “Turban,” alternating them with fine slices of truffle, and pour a tomatéd half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffleessence, in the middle.</p>
		<h3 id="1340" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNONS à la BROCHETTE</h3>
		<p>Cut the mutton kidneys into halves, as explained, withoutdividing them; impale them two or four at' a time, on a skewer;</p>
		<p>season them, and grill them in a somewhat fierce oven. Setthem, with the skewers withdrawn, upon a hot dish, and put intothe cavity of each a piece of softened, Maître-d’hôtel butter, thesize of a hazel nut.</p>
		<p>,34I_ROGNONS BROCHETTE A d’ESPAGNOLE</p>
		<p>Prepare the mutton kidneys as above.</p>
		<p>Grill the same quantity of small, pressed and seasoned half-tomatoes. Garnish these tomatoes with a piece, the size ofa walnut, of Maître-d’hôtel butter, combined with two-thirds oz.of chopped capsicum per three oz. of butter. Dish these toma-toes in a circle; set a kidney on each, and surround with a borderconsisting of rings of onion, seasoned, dredged and crisply friedin oil.</p>
		<h3 id="1342" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROGNONS BROCHETTE au VERT PRI*</h3>
		<p>Prepare the mutton kidneys exactly as explained under thefirst of this kind of recipes, and surround them with smallheaps of straw potatoes and bunches of very green parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1343" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BROCHETTES de ROGNONS</h3>
		<p>Remove the outer skin from the mutton kidneys, and cutthem into roundels one-third in. thick. Season these roundelsand stiffen them in butter over a very fierce fire. Impale themon skewers, alternating them with squares of blanched leanbacon and slices of sautéd mushrooms. Sprinkle with meltedbutter and raspings, and grill.</p>
		<p>These brochettes are generally served as they stand.</p>
		<p>Various Preparations of Mutton.</p>
		<p>%</p>
		<h3 id="1344" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">C ASSO U LET</h3>
		<p>(1) Set one quart of haricot beans to cook with two quartsof water, one-third oz. of salt, one carrot, one onion stuck witha clove, one faggot, six garlic cloves, and two-thirds lb. of freshpork rind, blanched and strung together. Boil; skim; cover, and cook gently for one hour. At the end of this time, addtwo-thirds lb. of breast of pork, and a sausage with garlic, ofthe same weight as the pork. Salt the beans very moderately, allowing for the reduction which they have ultimately toundergo.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the whole gently.</p>
		<p>(2) Fry gently in lard one lb. of shoulder, and the sameweight of breast, of mutton; both cut into pieces one and one-half oz. in weight.</p>
		<p>This done, drain away half the grease; add two chopped</p>
		<p>onions and two crushed cloves of garlic, and fry again untilthe onions have acquired a slight colour. Now pour in one-sixth pint of good tomato purée; moisten the meat, enough tocover, with the cooking-liquor of haricot beans, and cook gentlyin the oven for one and one-half hours at least.</p>
		<p>(3) Garnish the bottom and sides of some cocottes or deepdishes with bacon rind; fill these with alternate layers of thepieces of mutton, the beans, the bacon cut into dice, and thesausage cut into roundels.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the surface with raspings, and set the gratin toform in a moderate oven for one hour; taking care to bastefrom time to time with some reserved haricot-beans cooking-liquor.</p>
		<p>&gt;345—CURRIE A d’INDIENNE</p>
		<p>Cut two lbs. of lean mutton into cubes of one and one-thirdin. side, and fry these in three oz. of lard, with one choppedonion, salt, and a pinch of powdered curry. When the meatis frizzled and the onions begin to colour, sprinkle with oneand one-third oz. of flour; cook the latter a while; moistenwith one and one-third pints of water or stock; boil, stirringthe while, so as to dissolve the roux, and then cook gently inthe oven for one and one-half hours. When about to serve, clearof all grease and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>Send a timbale of rice &amp; 1’indienne separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1346" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DAUBE A d’AVIGNONNAISE</h3>
		<p>Bone a medium-sized leg of mutton, and cut the meat intosquares, three oz. in weight. Lard each square with a large, seasoned strip of bacon, inserted with the grain of the meat.Put the pieces into a daubiere with a sliced half-carrot andonion, three cloves of garlic, a little thyme, bay, and parsleystalks. Moisten with one and one-third pints of good, red wineand four tablespoonfuls of oil, and marinade in the cool for twohours.</p>
		<p>Prepare:—(1) Three chopped onions mixed with twocrushed garlic cloves; (2) one-half lb. of lean bacon, cut intodice and blanched; (3) one-half lb. of fresh, bacon rind, blanched and cut into squares of one in. side; (4) a large bunchof parsley, containing a small piece of dry, orange peel. Gar-nish the bottom and sides of a daubiere with thin slices ofbacon; set the pieces of mutton in layers inside, and alternatethem with layers of onion, bacon and bacon rind; sprinkle apinch of powdered thyme and bay on each layer of meat. Putthe faggot in the middle.</p>
		<p>Moisten with the marinade, strained through a sieve, andone-fifth pint of brown stock; cover with slices of bacon; closethe daubihe, and seal down the lid by means of a threadof soft paste, in order that the steam may be concentrated inside.</p>
		<p>Boil on the side of the stove; put the daubihe in an ovenof regular heat (a baker’s oven if possible) that the cookingprocess may be gentle and steady, and cook for five hours.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, uncover the daubihe; remove theoverlying slices of bacon; clear of grease; remove the faggot, and dish the daubihe on a napkin.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—According to the household method, the “Daube”is served in the daubihe itself; but, subject to the demands ofthe service and in order that the preparation may keep itsbucolic character, it may be served in small earthenwareutensils.</p>
		<p>&gt;347—DAUBE FROIDE</p>
		<p>Cold Daube constitutes an excellent luncheon dish. Allthat is needed is to put what is left into a small daubihe, where, as a result of the binding properties of the pork rinds, it willset in a mass.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out on a round dish; surroundwith very light, chopped jelly; and carve into very thin slices.</p>
		<h3 id="1348" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EMINCES et HACHI5</h3>
		<p>An unalterable principle governs the preparation of eminc^sand hashes, which is that the meats constituting these dishesshould never boil if it be desired that they be not hard.</p>
		<p>They should, therefore, only be heated in their accom-panying garnish or sauce, and in the case of eminc^s, cut asfinely as possible.</p>
		<p>For the various recipes under this head, see the Chapter onBeef. (Nos. 1175, 1178 and 1179.)</p>
		<h3 id="1349" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HARICOT de MOUTON</h3>
		<p>Heat three oz. of lard in a sauté-pan. Put therein one-halflb. of lean bacon, cut into dice and blanched, and twenty smallonions. When the bacon is frizzled and the onions haveacquired a good colour, drain both on a dish. In the same fat, fry three lbs. of breast, neck and shoulder of mutton, all threebeing cut into pieces weighing about three oz. Keep the meatin the fat until each piece of it has acquired a frizzled coat.</p>
		<p>Drain away half of the grease; add three crushed cloves ofgarlic; dust with two tablespoonfuls of flour, and cook the latter, stirring the while.</p>
		<p>Moisten with one quart of water; season with one-third oz.</p>
		<p>of salt and a pinch of pepper; boil and stir; add a faggot, andcook in the oven for thirty minutes.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the pieces to another saucepan; add thebacon and the onions and a quart of half-cooked haricot beans;strain the sauce over the whole, and complete the cooking in theoven for one hour.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale or in small cocottes.</p>
		<h3 id="1350" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">IRISH STEW</h3>
		<p>Cut two lbs. of boned breast and shoulder of mutton intopieces, as above.</p>
		<p>Slice two lbs. of potatoes and chop four medium-sizedonions.</p>
		<p>Take a saucepan just large enough to hold these ingredientsand the moistening; line the bottom of the utensil with a layerof the pieces of meat, and season the latter with salt and pepper.Upon the meat spread a litter of sliced potatoes and Choppedonions; repeat the operation, again and again, until all theingredients are used up, and remember to place a faggot in themiddle.</p>
		<p>Moisten with one and one-third pint of water, and cookgently in the oven for one and one-half hours. The potatoesin this preparation answer the double purpose of garnish andleason.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale and serve boiling.</p>
		<p>135*— MOUSSAKA</p>
		<p>(1) Cut six fine egg-plants into halves, lengthwise; cisel thepulp somewhat deeply with the point of a small knife, and frythem until their pulp may be easily removed. Do this with aspoon, and put the pulp aside with the skins of the egg-plants.</p>
		<p>(2) Peel two fair-sized egg-plants; cut them into roundelsone-third in. thick; season them, dredge them; fry them inoil, and put them aside.</p>
		<p>(3) Chop up the pulp withdrawn from the egg-plants, andput it into a basin with one and one-half lbs. of very lean, cooked mutton, chopped or cut into very small dice; two table-spoonfuls of very finely-chopped onion, fried in butter; a pinchof parsley; a piece of crushed garlic as large as a pea; threeoz. of roughly-chopped raw mushrooms, fried in butter; twoeggs; two tablespoonfuls of cold Espagnole sauce; one table-spoonful of tomato purée; a pinch of salt, and another ofpepper. Mix the whole well.</p>
		<p>(4) Butter a low-bordered quart Charlotte mould; line it allover with the egg-plant skins, and lay these black side upper-</p>
		<p>most. Garnish the bottom of the mould with a layer of mince-meat, one in. thick; on this layer place a few fried roundels ofegg-plant, and continue thus with alternate layers of mince andegg-plant. Cover the last layer of mince-meat with the remainsof the egg-plant skins, and cook in a bain-marie for one hour.</p>
		<p>When taking the mould out of the oven, let it stand for fiveminutes in order that the ingredients may settle; turn out ona round dish, and besprinkle the surface of the Moussaka withchopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1352" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MUTTON PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Follow the directions given under beefsteak pudding (№1170) exactly. The preparation is just the same, but for thesubstitution of mutton for the beef.</p>
		<p>•353—NAVARIN PRINTANIER</p>
		<p>Heat four oz. of clarified fat in a sauté-pan, and put into itfour lbs. of breast, neck and shoulder of mutton; all three cutinto pieces weighing two and one-half oz. Fry over a verybrisk fire; season with one-third oz. of salt, a pinch of groundpepper, and another of sugar.</p>
		<p>The sugar settles slowly on the bottom of the sauté-pan, where it turns to caramel; it is then dissolved by the moistening, and thus gives the sauce the required colour.</p>
		<p>When the meat is well fried, remove almost all the fat;sprinkle with one and one-half oz. of flour; cook the latterfor a few minutes, and moisten with one and one-half quarts ofwater or stock.</p>
		<p>Boil, stirring the while, and add two-thirds lb. of freshconcassed tomatoes or one-fifth pint of tomato purée; onecrushed clove of garlic, and a large faggot. Cover and cookin the oven for one hour.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the pieces of mutton, one by one, toanother saucepan with twenty small, new onions; twentypieces of new trimmed carrots; twenty pieces of new turnips, cut to the shape of long olives and tossed with butter in afrying-pan; twenty small, new potatoes, cut into two, andtrimmed, or whole; one-sixth pint of fresh peas, and an equalquantity of raw French beans, cut into lozenges. Strain thesauce over the whole; set to boil, and continue cooking slowlyin the oven for one hour; taking care from time to time to bastethe overlying vegetables with sauce.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale and serve very hot.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—When put into the sauce, the vegetables cook muchless quickly than in boiling water. In the Navarin, moreover,</p>
		<p>they are cooked by means of gradual penetration; thus, byslackening the cooking speed of the Navarin, they are cookedto the required extent.</p>
		<p>*354—PILAW de MOUTON à la TURQUE</p>
		<p>Mutton Pilaff is, in fact, nothing but a Navarin in whichthe tomatoes dominate the other ingredients; it is flavoured with ginger or saffron, according to circumstances, and the usualvegetables are replaced by rice. Prepared in this way, it doesnot lend itself very well to the exigencies of a restaurant service.</p>
		<p>More often, therefore, it is treated like curried mutton; but, instead of serving it with rice &amp; l’lndienne, it is dished in themidst of a pilaff-rice border. Sometimes, too, the rice is servedseparately, after the manner of a curry dish.</p>
		<p>HOUSE LAMB.</p>
		<p>*355—BARON (or PAIR of HIND-QUARTERS) of LAMB*356—DOUBLE (or PAIR of LEGS) of LAMB*357—QUARTER of LAMB*358—FILLET of LAMB*359—SADDLE and NECK of LAMB</p>
		<p>Large joints of lamb for Relevés are cut like those of mutton.</p>
		<p>One joint, however, should be added, which is “TheHaunch”; and this consists of one leg and half the loinattached.</p>
		<p>Large joints of house lamb should be poeled or roasted.Their most suitable adjunct is either their own stock, or athickened, highly seasoned and clear gravy.</p>
		<p>House Lamb Relevés are chiefly garnished with early-seasonor new vegetables; but all the garnishes given under Mutton Relevés may also be served with them, provided the differencein size be taken into account. In addition to these garnishes, saddle of lamb admits of all the preparations given under saddleof veal (Nos. 1181 to 1191).</p>
		<h3 id="1360" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SELLE d’AGNEAU de LAIT EDOUARD VII.</h3>
		<p>Completely bone the saddle from underneath, in suchwise asto leave the skin intact; season it inside, and place in the middlea fine foie gras, studded with truffles and marinaded in Marsala.</p>
		<p>Reconstruct the saddle, and wrap it tightly in a piece ofmuslin; put it in a saucepan just large enough to hold it, on alitter of pieces of bacon rind, cleared of all fat and blanched.</p>
		<p>G G</p>
		<p>Moisten, enough to cover, with the braising-liquor of a cushionof veal; add thereto the Marsala used in marinading the foiegras, and poach for about forty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Before withdrawing the saddle, make sure that the foie grasis sufficiently cooked. Remove the muslin, and put the saddlein an oval terrine a pâté just large enough to hold it. Strainthe cooking-liquor over it, without clearing the former of grease, and set it to cool.</p>
		<p>When the saddle is quite cold, carefully clear away the greasethat lies upon it, first by means of a spoon and then by meansof boiling water. Serve it very cold, in the terrine as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1361" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU BEAUCAIRE</h3>
		<p>Having trimmed the neck of lamb, as explained, brown itin butter; surround it with eight small, Provence half-artichokes, and cook gently in the oven. The artichokes in question haveno chokes and are very tender.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, peel, press, concass and season four or five toma-toes, and fry them in butter. When they are ready, add a largepinch of chopped tarragon to them.</p>
		<p>Dish the tomatoes; set the neck upon them, and surroundit with the stewed half-artichokes.</p>
		<h3 id="1362" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU en COCOTTEA la BONNE FEMME</h3>
		<p>Fry a shortened and well-trimmed neck of lamb, in butter.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer it to an oval cocotte with ten small onionsbrowned in butter, and two medium-sized potatoes, cut into largedice, shaped like garlic cloves, and blanched. Sprinkle thewhole with melted butter and cook gently in the oven.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation as it stands, in the cocotte, placing thelatter on a folded napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1363" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU à la BOULANGERE</h3>
		<p>Fry the neck of lamb with butter, in an earthenware dish, and surround it with sliced onions, tossed in butter, and slicedpotatoes; both of which vegetables should be in quantities inproportion to the size of the piece of meat. The “à la Boul-ang&amp;re” procedure is always the same, and was explained underNo. 1307, but allowances should always be made for the par-ticular size and tenderness of the piece.</p>
		<h3 id="1364" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE D AGNEAU GRILLE</h3>
		<p>Having shortened and well trimmed the neck, season it;sprinkle it with melted butter, and grill it gently.</p>
		<p>45»</p>
		<p>When it is almost cooked, sprinkle it again with meltedbutter and bread-crumbs, and let it acquire a golden colourwhile completely cooking it.</p>
		<p>Serve very hot with mint sauce and a suitable garnish.</p>
		<p>*365—CARRE d’AGNEAU MIREILLE</p>
		<p>Prepare some Anna potatoes (№2203) in an oval earthen-ware dish, and add a third of the quantity of potatoes of raw, minced artichoke-bottoms.</p>
		<p>When the potatoes are three-parts cooked, stiffen the neckin butter; place it on the potatoes, and complete the cooking ofthe two, basting often the while with melted butter.</p>
		<p>Send the preparation to the table on the dish that hasserved in the cooking process.</p>
		<h3 id="1366" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU PRINTANIER</h3>
		<p>Prepare the following garnish: eight small onions, half-cooked in butter; ten carrots of the size and shape of garliccloves, cooked in consommé and glazed; and ten turnips ofthe same shape and size, similarly treated.</p>
		<p>Put these vegetables into a cocotte with three tablespoonfulsof fresh peas; the same quantity of raw, French beans, cut intolozenge form; two or three tablespoonfuls of good and veryclear stock, and complete the cooking of the whole.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, poele the neck of lamb, which should have beenshortened and trimmed in the usual way. Dish the neck oflamb and serve the vegetables in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1367" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU SOUBISE</h3>
		<p>Having shortened and trimmed the neck of lamb, stiffen itin butter; surround it with one-half lb. of finely-minced andwell-blanched onions, and complete the cooking of both bystewing.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the neck to a dish and keep it hot. Addone-quarter pint of boiling Bechamel sauce to the onions, andrub them quickly through tammy or a fine sieve. Heat this Soubise; finish it with one and one-half oz. of butter, and pourit over the neck.</p>
		<p>Border the dish with a thread of rather light meat glaze, and serve.</p>
		<h3 id="1368" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARRE d’AGNEAU à la TOSCANE</h3>
		<p>Shorten the neck of lamb; suppress the cartilaginous portionsand stiffen it in butter. Garnish the bottom of an oval earthen-ware dish, of the same size as the neck, with a layer of Annapotatoes (№2203). Set the neck on this layer, and cover it</p>
		<p>G G 2</p>
		<p>over with a second layer of the same potato preparation.Sprinkle with grated Parmesan; cook in the oven as for Annapotatoes, and take care that the bottom be so well set as toprevent any of the juices of the joint from exuding and deposit-ing on it.</p>
		<p>Serve the dish as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1369" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LEG and SHOULDER of LAMB</h3>
		<p>All the recipes given under Haunch and Double (pair oflegs), may be applied to the legs and shoulders of house lamb.</p>
		<p>The shoulders are often grilled, the operation being effectedover a moderate fire after the joints have been incised lattice-fashion, and the same applies to the breast. The “&amp; laBoulang&amp;re” treatment (№1307) admirably suits the legs andshoulders of house lamb.</p>
		<h3 id="1370" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUTLETS</h3>
		<p>According to custom, lamb cutlets are usually served like“Noisettes,” <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, two are allowed for each person.</p>
		<p>As a rule, when they are to be grilled, they are previouslydipped in melted butter and sprinkled with fine bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>When they are to be sautéd they are treated a Vanglaise (eggand bread-crumbs) except when, subject to their mode of pre-paration, they have to be served plain or stuffed.</p>
		<h3 id="1371" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes d’AGNEAU de lait a la buloz</h3>
		<p>Prepare:—(1) a rizotto (№2238) with truffles, in propor-tion to the number of cutlets; (2) some very reduced Bechamelsauce, combined with one-half oz. of grated Parmesan per one-fifth pint of the sauce, and allowing one small tablespoonful of itfor each cutlet.</p>
		<p>Half-grill the cutlets; dry them, and cover them, on bothsides, with the reduced sauce. As soon as the cutlets havereceived their coat of sauce, dip them, one by one, into beatenegg (anglaise); roll them in very fine bread-crumbs mixed withgrated Parmesan. Thoroughly press this coating of bread-crumbs with the flat of a knife, that it may adhere well to theegg and produce a crust at the close of the operation. Thisdone, set the cutlets in a sauté-pan of very hot, clarified butter, and brown them on both sides.</p>
		<p>Dish the rizotto in a very even layer; set the cutlets in acircle on the rice, and fix a frill to the bone of each.</p>
		<h3 id="1372" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtelettes d’AGNEAU de LAITMARECHALE</h3>
		<p>Treat the cutlets d l’anglaise, and cook them in clarifiedbutter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle, with a fine slice of truffle upon each;</p>
		<p>and, in their midst, set a nice heap of asparagus-heads coheredwith butter.</p>
		<p>&gt;373—COTELETTES d’AGNEAU de LAIT</p>
		<p>MILANAISE</p>
		<p>Treat the cutlets &amp; Vanglaise, but add to the bread-crumbsthe quarter of their weight of grated Parmesan.</p>
		<p>Cook the cutlets in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle, and, in their midst, arrange a garnish “à la milanaise” (seeCote de Vau à la Milanaise,” №1258.)</p>
		<h3 id="1374" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTELETTES d’AQNEAU de LAIT</h3>
		<p>MORLAND</p>
		<p>Slightly flatten the cutlets, dip them in beaten egg, and rollthem in finely-chopped truffle, which in this case answers thepurpose of bread-crumbs. Press the truffle with the flat of aknife, that it may thoroughly combine with the egg, and cookthe cutlets in clarified butter. Dish them in a circle; garnishthe centre of the dish with a mushroom purée (№2059), andsurround the cutlets with a thread of buttered meat glaze.</p>
		<p>*375—COTELETTES d’AQNEAU de LAIT</p>
		<p>NAVARRAISE</p>
		<p>For twelve cutlets, make a preparation consisting of fouroz. of ham, four oz. of cooked mushrooms, and one-half oz. ofchopped, red capsicums; the whole being cohered by means ofa very reduced Bechamel sauce, flavoured with truffle essence.</p>
		<p>Grill the cutlets on one side only, and garnish them on theirgrilled side with a tablespoonful of the above preparation, whichshould be shaped like a dome upon them.</p>
		<p>Set the cutlets upon a tray as soon as they are garnished;sprinkle the surface of the preparation, covering them withgrated cheese and melted butter, and place them in the oven, that their cooking may be completed and the gratin formed.Meanwhile, toss twelve seasoned half-tomatoes in oil. Dishthese tomatoes in a circle; set a cutlet upon each, and borderwith a thread of tomato sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1376" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">“COTELETTES d’AQNEAU de LAIT</h3>
		<p>NELSON</p>
		<p>Grill the cutlets, and, at the same time, prepare as manybread-crumb croutons as there are cutlets, and of exactly thesame shape as the latter. Fry the croutons in butter, and coatthem with foie-gras purée.</p>
		<p>Place a grilled cutlet on each coated crouton, and a sliceof truffle on the kernel of each cutlet. Now, by means of a</p>
		<p>piping-bag, fitted with an even pipe, cover the cutlets with somesouffle au Parmesan (№2295A); dish them in a circle, andput them in the oven for five minutes, that the soufflé maypoach.</p>
		<p>After withdrawing them from the oven, garnish the centreof the dish with a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1377" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COTELETTHS d’AGNEAU de LAIT FARCIESA la PERIGUEUX</h3>
		<p>Cook the cutlets in butter on one side only, and cool themunder slight pressure.</p>
		<p>Garnish the cooked side of each with a tablespoonful offorcemeat with butter (№193), which should have received acopious addition of chopped truffles. Shape this forcemeatdome-fashion, by means of the flat of a small knife, dipped intepid water, and set the cutlets, one by one, on a tray. Nowput them in the front of the oven for seven or eight minutesthat the forcemeat may be poached.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle, and pour a Périgueux sauce in theirmidst.</p>
		<h3 id="1378" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EPIGRAMMES d’AGNEAU</h3>
		<p>A lamb “epigram” consists of a cutlet, and a piece ofbraised breast, cooled under slight pressure and cut to the shapeof a heart of the same size as the cutlets. The cutlets and thepieces of breast must be treated a Vanglaise, and sautéd orgrilled according to circumstance.</p>
		<p>Epigrams should be dished in a circle, the cutlets and thepieces being alternated.</p>
		<p>They are usually garnished with braised chicory, or mace-doines of early-season vegetables.</p>
		<h3 id="1379" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIS d’AGNEAU</h3>
		<p>Lamb sweetbreads are, according to circumstances, eitherused as the principal constituent of various preparations, or theyanswer the purpose of a garnish.</p>
		<p>Due allowance having been made for their particular size, they may be treated after the same manner as veal sweetbreads;that is to say, once they have been cleared of blood, they areblanched and braised according to the nature of the selectedmode of preparation.</p>
		<p>If they are to form part of a large garnish, cohered by meansof a brown sauce, they are braised brown and glazed. If theystand as an adjunct to poached fowl, they may be either studdedor left plain, and braised white.</p>
		<p>Apart from their two uses as principal and garnishing con-</p>
		<p>stituents, the undermentioned methods of preparation, explainedin the various preceding series, may be applied to them; <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>:—</p>
		<p>Attereaux, Brochettes, Croustades, Pâté chaud, Vol au vent,&amp;c.</p>
		<h3 id="1380" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Sauté d’AGNEAU PRINTANIER</h3>
		<p>Prepare the following garnish:—Twenty new carrots, cut tothe shape of large olives, cooked in consommé and glazed;twenty pieces of turnip, similarly treated; fifteen small, newonions, cooked in butter; twenty very small new potatoes, cooked in butter (or d I’anglaise if desired); three tablespoonfulsof peas; the same quantity of French beans cut into lozenge-form, and an equal quantity of small flageolet beans. Thethree last vegetables should be cooked a Vanglaise, and keptrather firm.</p>
		<p>Cut two lbs. of shoulder and breast of lamb into piecesweighing two oz., and completely cook them in butter withoutany moistening.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer them to a dish. Swill the saucepan withthree tablespoonfuls of water; add five tablespoonfuls of palemeat glaze; heat without boiling, and finish with two and one-half oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Put the pieces of lamb and the vegetables into this sauce, and gently rock the saucepan, that all the ingredients may par-take of the sauce.</p>
		<p>Serve in a hot timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1381" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PILAW d’AGNEAU</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as explained under “Pilaw de Mouton”(№1354), only bear in mind that the time allowed for cookingshould be proportionately shortened in view of the greater ten.derness of lamb’s meat.</p>
		<h3 id="1382" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CURRIE d’AGNEAU</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Currie de Mouton,” after duly allowing, as above, for the greater tenderness of the meat.</p>
		<p>PORK</p>
		<p>Releves and Entrees.</p>
		<h3 id="1383" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH LEG of PORK</h3>
		<h3 id="1384" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH PORK FILLETS*385—FRESH NECK of PORK</h3>
		<p>Releves of fresh pork are only served at family and bourgeoismeals. They are always roasts and allow of all the dry or freshvegetable garnishes, as wrell as the various vegetable purées, and the pastes, such as macaroni, noodles, polenta, gnochi, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr> Ishall, therefore, give only a few recipes, and shall select FreshNeck of Pork as the typical joint.</p>
		<h3 id="1386" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH NECK of PORK à la CHOUCROtiTE</h3>
		<p>Roast the neck of pork and withdraw it from the oven a fewminutes before it is done.</p>
		<p>Keep it in the stove for an hour, that its cooking may becompleted gently; but remember, that if a stove is not avail-able, the cooking of the piece should be well finished in theoven; for pork is indigestible when it is not thoroughly wellcooked.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, prepare a garnish of sauerkraut (№2097), and, during the last hour of its cooking, sprinkle it frequently withthe fat of the neck.</p>
		<p>Dish the neck; clear the sauerkraut of any superfluous fat, and set it round the piece of meat in spoonfuls; slightly pressingit in so doing.</p>
		<h3 id="1387" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH NECK of PORK with BRUSSELS SPROUTS</h3>
		<p>Roast the neck of pork. Three-parts cook the Brusselssprouts; completely drain them, and put them round the pieceof meat, that they may complete their cooking in its gravy andfat, being frequently basted the while.</p>
		<p>For this preparation it is well to roast the neck in an earthen-ware dish, in which it may be served with its garnish—a muchbetter plan than that of transferring it to another dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1388" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH NECK of PORK with RED CABBAGEA la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Roast the neck of pork; dish it and surround it with agarnish of red cabbages, prepared à la Flamande (№2098).</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the garnish of vegetables with the gravy of thejoint, three-parts cleared of grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1389" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH NECK of PORK with STEWED APPLES</h3>
		<p>Roast the neck of pork and see that it is well done.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, peel and mince one lb. of apples; put them ina saucepan with one oz. of sugar and a few tablespoonfuls ofwater; seal the lid of the saucepan well down, so as to con-centrate the steam inside, and cook quickly. When about toserve, thoroughly work the apple purée with a wire whisk, inorder to smooth it. Dish the neck with its gravy, three-partscleared of grease, and serve the apple purée separately in atimbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1390" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH NECK of PORK à la SOISSONNAISE</h3>
		<p>Roast the neck on a dish that may be sent to the table.</p>
		<p>When it is three-parts done, set one quart of cooked andwell-drained haricot beans round it, and complete the cookinggently. Serve the dish as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1391" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOILED SALTED PORK A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cook plainly in water three lbs. of shoulder, breast, orgammon of bacon, and add thereto a garnish of vegetables asfor boiled beef, and six parsnips.</p>
		<p>Serve the vegetables round the piece of meat, and send apease-pudding (prepared as directed below) separately.</p>
		<p>Pease-pudding: put one lb. of a purée of yellow or green, split peas into a basin, and mix therewith three oz. of meltedor softened butter, three eggs, a pinch of salt, another of pepper, and a little nutmeg. Pour this purée into a pudding basin, andpoach it in steam or in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>This preparation may also be put into a buttered and flour-dusted napkin; in which case, close the napkin up purse-fashion, tying it up securely with string, and cook the pudding in thesame stewpan with the pork. This procedure is simpler thanthe first and quite as good.</p>
		<p>Very often a purée prepared from split, yellow or green peas, is used instead of the pudding given above.</p>
		<h3 id="1392" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PORK PIE</h3>
		<p>Completely line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thinslices of raw ham, and prepare, for a medium-sized dish:—(1)one and one-half lbs. of fresh pork in collops, seasoned with saltand pepper, and sprinkle with two tablespoonfuls of dryDuxelles (№223), a pinch of parsley and another of chopped</p>
		<p>sage; (2) one and one-half lbs. of raw, sliced potatoes, and onelarge, chopped onion.</p>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of the dish with a litter of collops; coverwith potatoes and onions; spread another litter of collops, andbegin again in the same order. Add one-quarter pint of water;cover with a layer of fine paste or puff-paste trimmings, whichshould be well sealed down round the edges; gild with beatenegg; streak the paste with the prongs of a fork; make a slit inthe centre of the covering of paste for the escape of steam, andbake in a moderate oven for about two hours.</p>
		<p>Fresh-pork Cutlets.</p>
		<p>*393—FRESH-PORK CUTLETS à la CHARCUTIERE</p>
		<p>Season the cutlets; dip them in melted butter, and sprinklethem with fine raspings. Grill them gently, and baste themfrom time to time.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle; pour a Charcuti&amp;re sauce in theirmidst, and serve a timbale of potato purée separately.</p>
		<p>Charcutiere sauce for eight or ten cutlets: prepare one pint of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#52">Robert Sauce</a> and mix with it, just before dishingup, two oz. of gherkins, cut in short julienne fashion or minced.</p>
		<h3 id="1394" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH-PORK CUTLETS à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Season the cutlets, and fry them on both sides in butteror fat.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, peel and slice some eating apples, allowing threeoz. of the latter for each cutlet, and put them in an earthenwaredish. Set upon them the half-fried cutlets; sprinkle with fat, and complete their cooking, as well as that of the apples, in theoven.</p>
		<p>Serve the dish as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1395" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Côtes de porc Frais à la Milanaise</h3>
		<p>Treat the cutlets a Vanglaise, but remember to add one quartof grated Parmesan to the bread-crumbs. Cook them gently inbutter.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle; set a milanaise garnish (№1258) in thecentre, and serve a tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1396" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH-PORK CUTLETS with PIQUANTEOR ROBERT SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Season and grill or sauté the cutlets. Dish them in a circle, with Piquante or <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#52">Robert Sauce</a> in their midst.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—(1) Cutlets accompanied by either of the two above-mentioned sauces, may be treated with melted butter and bread-</p>
		<p>crumbs and grilled or sautid; but, in this case, the sauce shouldbe served separately.</p>
		<p>(2) For cutlets with Piquante sauce, border the dish on whichthey are served with gherkins, and send the sauce either separ-ately or on the dish.</p>
		<p>(3) All the garnishes given under fresh neck of pork mayaccompany grilled or sautéd pork cutlets.</p>
		<h3 id="1397" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUCKING PIG</h3>
		<p>Stuffed or not stuffed, sucking pigs are always roasted whole, and the essential point of the procedure is that they should bejust done when their skin is crisp and golden.</p>
		<p>While cooking, they should be frequently basted with oil;the latter being used in preference to any other fatty substanceowing to the greater crispness it gives to the skin of the suckingPig-</p>
		<p>Serve a sauceboat of good gravy at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1398" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROAST STUFFED SUCKING PIG A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>For a sucking pig of medium weight, prepare the followingforcemeat:—Cook three lbs. of large onions with their skins, and let them cool. This done, peel and finely chop them, andput them in a basin with one lb. of the chopped fat of kidneyof beef, one lb. of soaked and well-pressed bread-crumb, fouroz. of parboiled and chopped sage, two eggs, one oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper and a little nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Mix the whole well, and put this stuffing inside the suckingpig. Sew up the latter’s belly; put it on the spit, and roast asdirected above.</p>
		<p>Serve separately, either a timbale of apple sauce or of mashedpotatoes. Four oz. per lb. of selected raisins, washed andswelled in tepid water, are sometimes combined with the applesauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1399" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ZAMPINO de MODfeNE</h3>
		<p>Zampino, or stuffed leg of pork, is a product of Italianpork-butchery.</p>
		<p>It is cooked like a ham, after having been tied in a napkinlest its skin burst.</p>
		<p>Served hot, it is accompanied by a Madeira or tomato sauce, a garnish of boiled, braised, or gratined cabbages; of Frenchbeans, or of potato purée.</p>
		<h3 id="1400" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ZAMPINO FROID</h3>
		<p>Zampino is served cold, alone or mixed with other meats;but it is used more particularly as a hors-d’oeuvre. For thispurpose, cut it into the thinnest possible slices.</p>
		<p>460 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1401" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">OREILLES à la ROUENNAISE</h3>
		<p>After having singed and well cleaned the inside of the pig’sears, cook them in water, salted to the extent of one-third oz.of salt per quart, together with a garnish of vegetables as forpot-au-feu. This done, cut them across in suchwise as to havethe end where the flesh is thickest on one side, and the thinnestend on the other side of the strips.</p>
		<p>Chop up the thick portion; cut the other into collops, and putthe whole into a saucepan with one-quarter pint of half-glazewith Madeira.</p>
		<p>Cook gently for thirty minutes. This done, add to theminced ears, one and one-half lbs. of sausage meat and a pinchof chopped parsley. Divide up the whole into portions, weighingthree oz; wrap each portion in a piece of pig’s caul, insert acollop of ear into the wrapping, and give the latter the shape ofordinary crepinettes. Grill gently, until the cooking is three-parts done; sprinkle with butter and raspings, and complete thecooking of the crepinettes, colouring them in so doing.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and serve a Madeira sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1402" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">OREILLES à la SAINTE MENEHOULD</h3>
		<p>Cook the ears as explained above, and let them cool.</p>
		<p>Cut them in two, lengthwise; coat them with mustard;sprinkle them with melted butter and raspings, and grill themgently.</p>
		<p>Ears are usually served plain, but they may be accompaniedby apple sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1403" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PIEDS de PORC TRUFFES</h3>
		<p>Truffled pig’s trotters may be bought already prepared; allthat remains to be done, therefore, is to grill them.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle them with melted butter; grill them very gently, basting them from time to time the while, and serve them with aPérigueux sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1404" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PIEDS de PORC PANES</h3>
		<p>Sprinkle the pig’s trotters copiously with melted butter, andput them on the grill, which should be very hot.</p>
		<p>Grill them very gently, turning them with care; and servethem plain, or with a tomato purée separately.</p>
		<p>Boudins.</p>
		<h3 id="1405" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUDIN BLANC ORDINAIRE</h3>
		<p>Chop and afterwards pound one-half lb. of very lean freshpork, and three-quarters lb. of fat fresh bacon. Add one andone-half oz. of foie gras, and rub through a fine sieve.</p>
		<p>Put this forcemeat into a basin, and finish it with two fresheggs; one and one-half oz. of chopped onion, cooked in butterwithout colouration; one-sixth pint of thick cream; one-half oz.of salt, a pinch of white pepper, and a little nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Mix the whole well; put it into the gut, without overfillingthe latter, and tie round with string at regular intervals. Nowset the boudins on a willow lattice, and plunge them into areceptacle full of boiling water. From this moment keep thewater at 203°F., and let the boudins poach for twelve minutes.This done, withdraw them, and let them cool.</p>
		<p>Before serving them, grill them very gently, and, as a pre-cautionary measure, wrap them in buttered paper. Do notcisel them, but prick them with a pin.</p>
		<p>Serve a purée of potatoes with cream at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1406" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUDINS BLANCS de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Pound separately one lb. of raw chicken fillets and three-quarters lb. of fresh fat bacon.</p>
		<p>Combine the two products in the mortar; pound again withthe view of thoroughly mixing them, and add three oz. ofchopped onion, cooked in butter without colouration, togetherwith a little thyme and bay; one-half oz. of salt, a pinch ofwhite pepper, and a little nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Mix the whole well, and add four eggs, one by one, workingthe forcemeat vigorously the while with the pestle.</p>
		<p>Rub through a fine sieve; return the forcemeat to the mortar, and add thereto, little by little, one pint of boiled and verycold milk.</p>
		<p>Put the forcemeat into the gut; poach it in the bain-marie, and set it to grill, observing the same precautions as in thepreceding recipe.</p>
		<p>Serve a purée of potatoes with cream at the same time as theboudins.</p>
		<h3 id="1407" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUDINS NOIRS</h3>
		<p>Make the following preparation, putting the various in-gredients into a basin:—One lb. of very fresh pork fat, cut intolarge dice, and half-melted; one sixth pint of thick cream; twoeggs; six oz. of chopped onions, cooked in lard without coloura-</p>
		<p>tion; two-thirds oz. of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a little spice;a pinch of wild-thyme leaves, and a leaf of bay, both chopped.</p>
		<p>Mix the whole well with one pint of blood of pork, and put itinto the gut without over-filling it, for it should be borne inmind that the preparation swells in poaching.</p>
		<p>Set the boudins on willow lattices or baskets; plunge theminto boiling water, and, from that time, keep the latter at203°F.</p>
		<p>Let them poach for twenty minutes, and remember to prickall those that, by rising to the surface, show they contain air, which might burst their skins. When about to serve them, cisel them on both sides, and grill them very gently.</p>
		<p>They are generally accompanied by a potato purée withcream.</p>
		<h3 id="1408" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUDINS NOIRS A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Have ready the same preparation as for black boudins, givenabove, and add to it three-quarters lb. of rice, cooked in con-somm£ and kept somewhat firm. Poach as before, and leave tocool. Cisel the boudins, and grill them over a moderate fire.</p>
		<p>Serve very hot with an apple purée.</p>
		<h3 id="1409" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUDINS NOIRS à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Have ready the same preparation as for black boudins, andadd to it three oz. of moist sugar, two oz. of raisins, and thesame quantity of currants, washed and swelled in lukewarmwater.</p>
		<p>Put the preparation into the gut, and poach in the usualway.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, grill these boudins gently, after themanner of black boudins, and send them to the table with asugared apple sauce.</p>
		<p>Crepinettes and Sausages.</p>
		<h3 id="1410" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREPINETTES TRUFFEES</h3>
		<p>Add to two lbs. of very good sausage-meat, four oz. ofchopped truffles, and two tablespoonfuls of truffles cooking-liquor. Mix the whole well; divide into portions weighing twoand one-half oz., and wrap each portion in a square of pig’scaul. Shape the crepinettes thus formed rectangularlySprinkle with melted butter, and grill gently.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle; pour a Périgueux sauce in their midst, and serve a potato purée with cream separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1411" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREPINETTES à la CENDRILLON</h3>
		<p>Prepare the crepinettes as above; wrap them in a doublesheet of buttered paper; over them set a heap of cinders coveredwith burning embers, and keep the latter alive for a space oftwenty minutes, when the cooking operation should be com-pleted.</p>
		<p>Formerly, the above was the mode of procedure, but now-adays the crepinettes are merely enveloped, each in an ovallayer of paste. They are then gilded, their tops are streaked, and, after having been laid on a tray, they are baked in a warmoven for twenty minutes.</p>
		<p>This done, they are dished on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1412" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUCISSES ANGLAISES</h3>
		<p>The most well-known of English sausages are those ofCambridge.</p>
		<p>They are cooked like the French kind, and they are oftenserved at breakfasts as an adjunct to bacon. Sometimes, too, they serve as a garnish to roast fowls, young turkeys, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Their seasoning is often excessive.</p>
		<h3 id="1413" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUCISSES au VIN BLANC</h3>
		<p>First Method.—Put the sausages in a well-buttered saut£-pan; poach them gently in the oven, and dish them on thincrusts of bread fried in butter.</p>
		<p>For twelve sausages, swill the sauté-pan with one-sixth pintof white wine; reduce this to half; add one-sixth pint of half-glaze sauce; boil for a few minutes, and finish, away from thefire, with one and one-half oz. of butter. Pour this sauce overthe sausages.</p>
		<p>Second Method.—Stiffen the sausages in butter; add one-third pint of white wTine, and complete their poaching. Setthem on fried crusts; reduce the wine by two-thirds, and addthereto the yolk of one egg, a few drops of lemon juice, twotablespoonfuls of pale melted meat-glaze, and three oz. ofbutter. Pour the sauce over the sausages.</p>
		<h3 id="1414" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUCISSES de FRANCFORT et de STRASBOURG</h3>
		<p>Plunge the sausages into a saucepanful of boiling water, andthen poach them for no more than ten minutes; should theybe allowed to cook for a longer time, they would only lose theirquality.</p>
		<p>They may be served with a hors-d’oeuvre dish of gratedhorse-radish, and an apple sauce separately; but their properadjunct is braised sauerkraut.</p>
		<p>Ham.</p>
		<p>However deservedly pork may be praised, it could neverhave been included among the preparations of first-class cookery(except subsidiarily) had it not been for the culinary value ofhams.</p>
		<p>With the latter it triumphs, and, be they of Bayonne orYork, of Prague or Westphalia, no other joints enjoy morefavour than these as Relevés.</p>
		<p>Though it is somewhat difficult to decide which one of thevarious kinds of ham should be adopted, in my opinion thatof Bohemia, known as Prague ham, is best for a warm dish, and that of York for a cold dish.</p>
		<p>The latter is also excellent when served hot, but, even so, for this purpose it is inferior to the Prague kind, the delicacyof which is incomparable.</p>
		<p>Still, York ham ranks first in the opinion of many, for itshould be remembered that England has no rival in the pre-paration of seasoned pork, and her famous bacon, the renownof which is enormous, constitutes one of the greatest discoveriesin the science of gastronomy.</p>
		<h3 id="1415" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HOT HAM—Its Preparation</h3>
		<p>York ham is the kind chiefly used.</p>
		<p>After having soaked it in cold water for six hours, brushit and remove the pelvic bone; put it into a stewpan of coldwater, and set to boil. This done, keep the water just simmer-ing, that the ham may cook after the poaching method.</p>
		<p>There is no need of any seasoning or aromatic garnish. Asoften as possible, leave the ham to cool in its cooking-liquor.If the ham is to be braised, take it out of the water thirtyminutes before it is cooked. Skin it; clear it of any superfluousfat, and put it in a braising-pan, just large enough to hold it, with two-thirds pint of some such wine as Madeira, Port, Xeres, Chypre, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr> Select the wine in accordance with thetitle of the dish on the menu.</p>
		<p>Having thoroughly sealed down the lid of the pan, put itin the oven, and continue the cooking of the ham gently forone hour, turning it over from time to time during the opera-tion. If it have to reach the table whole, glaze it at the lastmoment.</p>
		<p>Its usual adjunct is a light and highly seasoned half-glaze sauce, combined with some of the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1416" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON à la CHANOINESSE</h3>
		<p>Having poached the ham as explained above, braise it inwhite wine, adding thereto three oz. of mushroom parings.</p>
		<p>Dish and send separately a garnish of large, fresh noodles, cohered with butter and a Soubise purée, and completed witha julienne of truffles.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a half-glaze sauce, combined with the brais-ing-liquor, cleared of all grease and reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="1417" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON à la CHOUCROClTE</h3>
		<p>Completely cook the ham by poaching; skin and trim it.</p>
		<p>If served whole, send, separately, some braised sauerkrautand potatoes, freshly cooked a I’anglaise. Serve a half-glazesauce with Rhine wine at the same time.</p>
		<p>If served already carved, arrange the slices in a circle on around dish; put the sauerkraut in their midst, and border withthe potatoes.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, the same sauce as before.</p>
		<h3 id="1418" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON à la MAILLOT</h3>
		<p>Poach the ham; braise it, and glaze it at the last moment.Set it on a long dish, and surround it with the followinggarnish, arranged in alternate heaps:—Carrots and turnips, cut to the shape of large, elongated olives, cooked separately inconsomm6, and glazed; small onions cooked in butter; braisedand trimmed half-lettuces; peas and French beans cohered withbutter separately. ,</p>
		<p>Serve apart a thickened gravy combined with some of thebraising-liquor, cleared of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1419" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON à la PRAGUE SOUS la CENDRE</h3>
		<p>Poach the ham and drain it on a dish. Remove the skin andall the black, outside parts. Prepare a piece of patty pastelarge enough to enclose the ham. Besprinkle the surface of theham with powdered sugar; glaze quickly at the salamander, and place the ham (glazed side undermost) on the layer ofpaste.</p>
		<p>Draw the ends of the paste towards each other; seal themtogether, with the help of a little moisture, in such wise as toenclose the ham completely; turn the latter over, and put it ona tray with the sealed side of the paste lying underneath. Gildand streak, make a slit in the middle of the paste for the escapeof steam, and put the joint in the oven.</p>
		<p>Leave it there until the paste is dry and well coloured. Aftertaking the ham out of the oven, inject into it, through a pre-</p>
		<p>II II</p>
		<p>pared hole, a large wineglassful of Port wine or Sherry. Stopup the hole with a little pellet of paste; dish, and serve imme-diately.</p>
		<p>Serve at the same time a garnish of Gnochi, spinach, orSouffle au Parmesan (№2295A).</p>
		<p>The best adjunct to Prague ham is a very light glaze pre-pared with Port wine, and buttered at the last minute.</p>
		<h3 id="1419a" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Jambon de Prague à la Metternich</h3>
		<p>Prepare a ham “sous la cendre” as described above.</p>
		<p>Send to the table with it as many fine collops of foie-gras, tossed in butter and each covered with a nice slice of truffle, asthere are diners. Send also a timbale of asparagus-heads.</p>
		<p>The waiter in charge then puts a slice of ham, a collop offoie-gras, and a tablespoonful of asparagus-heads on each plateand serves.</p>
		<p>The sauce should be a Madeira flavoured with truffle essence.1419b—JAMBON de PRAGUE à la NORFOLK</p>
		<p>Prepare a ham as in №1419. Serve each slice of it withone collop of braised veal sweetbread and one tablespoonful offresh peas a la paysanne.</p>
		<p>Send as an adjunct the braising-liquor of the veal sweet-bread.</p>
		<h3 id="1420" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS GARNISHES for BRAISED HAM</h3>
		<p>The garnishes best suited to ham relevés are: —</p>
		<p>Spinach; new broad beans; braised lettuce; endives; fresh</p>
		<p>peas a la paysanne.</p>
		<p>Noodles; Spaghetti; various Macaronis; Gnochi; Purees offresh beans, broad beans.</p>
		<p>The most usual accompanying sauce is half-glaze withMadeira.</p>
		<h3 id="1421" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON Soufflé</h3>
		<p>This is a variety of the ham souffles given hereafter. Thepreparation used is the same, and it may be made either fromraw or from cooked ham.</p>
		<p>After having completely boned it, but for the end bone, which must be kept, cook the ham, and cool it.</p>
		<p>Now cut it horizontally, one-half inch above its bone, fromthe extremity of the end bone to the head of the latter. At thelast-mentioned point, make a vertical incision meeting and end-ing at the first; remove the cushion of ham, which should bynow be quite separated from the rest of the joint, and put asidefor some future purpose.</p>
		<p>All that remains of the ham, therefore, is a thick pieceadhering to the end-bone. Carefully trim this piece, and sur-round it with a strong band of buttered paper, tied on by meansof string, the purpose of which is to hold in the soufflé.</p>
		<p>This done, put a sufficient quantity of soufflé de Jambon(described hereafter) on the remaining meat of the ham to recon-struct it entirely. Smooth the surface of the preparation withthe flat of a knife (dipped in cold water), and so finish off thecontour of the ham. Decorate according to fancy; place thedish containing the ham on a saucepanfu) of boiling water, andput the two in the oven with the view of obtaining the maximumamount of steam, which latter helps to poach the soufflé. Thissouffled ham may be poached just as well in a steamer.</p>
		<p>When the preparation is properly poached, remove the bandof paper; dish the ham, and send one of the garnishes or saucesgiven for braised ham separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1422" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLES au JAMBON</h3>
		<p>Ham souffles are prepared after two recipes; in the first, cooked ham is used, and in the second the ham is raw. Thislast procedure is derived from mousseline forcemeat, and, in-asmuch as the preparation resulting from it is less flimsy thanthat of the first, it is preferred when a large number of peoplehave to be served.</p>
		<h3 id="1423" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE PREPARATION of THE Soufflé</h3>
		<p>with COOKED HAM</p>
		<p>Finely pound one lb. of lean, cooked ham, and add thereto, one after the other, three tablespoonfuls of very cold Bechamelsauce. Rub through a fine sieve; put the resulting puffie into asauffipan, and finish with one-quarter pint of very creamy andboiling Bechamel sauce, flavoured with ham essence; four egg-yolks, and the whites of six eggs, beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>This preparation may be combined with three oz. of gratedParmesan, and the two flavours will be found to blend veryagreeably.</p>
		<p>Prepared in this way, it is particularly well suited to the“Jambon Soufflé,” the recipe whereof is given above(№1421).</p>
		<h3 id="1424" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE PREPARATION of THE Soufflé</h3>
		<p>with RAW HAM</p>
		<p>Following the quantities given under “Farce mousseline”(№195), make the soufflé preparation, and add thereto four</p>
		<p>H H 2</p>
		<p>tablespoonfuls of reduced and very cold Bechamel sauce perlb. of raw ham.</p>
		<p>Keep the forcemeat somewhat stiff, and finish it with thewhites of four eggs, beaten to a stiff froth, per lb. of ham.</p>
		<h3 id="1425" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Soufflé de JAMBON ALEXANDRA</h3>
		<p>Make the soufflé preparation after one of the methods givenabove. Spread it in layers in a buttered timbale, alternatingthe layers of soufflé with others of asparagus-heads cohered withbutter. Smooth the surface to the shape of a dome; decoratewith a fine slice of truffle, and cook in a moderate oven, of atemperature suited to this kind of preparation. Serve thesouffle as soon as it is ready. If it be small, spread only onelayer of asparagus-heads in the middle of it.</p>
		<p>If it be large, spread two or three layers of asparagus-heads.</p>
		<h3 id="1426" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Soufflé! de JAMBON CARMEN</h3>
		<p>Add to the selected one of the two soufflé preparations—either will do—for one lb. of ham, the purée of one-half lb.of pressed tomatoes, cooked in butter with one half-capsicum, rubbed through a sieve and very much reduced.</p>
		<p>Dish the soufflé in a buttered timbale; sprinkle the surfacewith a pinch of red capsicum, cut in fine julienne fashion, andcook as described above.</p>
		<h3 id="1427" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Soufflé de JAMBON GASTRONOME</h3>
		<p>Dish the selected ham soufflé preparation in layers in abuttered timbale, and between each layer of it spread a litter ofnoodles, tossed in butter.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the surface with chopped truffles; set a ball oftruffle well in the centre of the soufflé, and cook in the usualway.</p>
		<h3 id="1428" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Soufflé de JAMBON MILANAISE</h3>
		<p>Dish the ham soufflé preparation in a buttered timbale, andspread it in alternate layers with a fine garnish &amp; la Milanaise(№1258).</p>
		<p>Deck the surface with small pieces of poached macaroni, fried in butter; sprinkle with grated cheese, and cook the soufflein a moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1429" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Soufflé de JAMBON PERIGOURDINE</h3>
		<p>Dish the soufflé preparation in layers in a buttered timbale, and between each layer spread a litter of truffle slices. Be-sprinkle the surface with chopped truffles, and cook thesouffle in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="1430" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSES et MOUSSELINESCHAUDES de JAMBON</h3>
		<p>Mousses and Mousselines are made from the same prepara-tion as “Farce mousseline de jambon,” in pursuance of thegeneral principles given under №195.</p>
		<p>The need of differentiating the terms arises from the factthat mousses are poached in a mould the contents of which aresufficient for a number of people, whereas mousselines are spoon-moulded quenelles, shaped like eggs.</p>
		<p>In the preparation of “Farce mousseline de jambon” it isnecessary to allow, in the salt seasoning, for the amount ofsalting the ham has already received.</p>
		<p>If the meat of the ham is not very red, the colour of theforcemeat may be intensified by means of a little vegetablered, in order that it may be of a distinct pink shade.</p>
		<h3 id="1431" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TREATMENT and ACCOMPANIMENT</h3>
		<p>of HAM Mousse</p>
		<p>Put the forcemeat in a deep border-mould, somewhat like aCharlotte, and poach it under cover in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>That the poaching may be regular, keep in water at a con-stant temperature of 205° or 208° Fahrenheit, and allow forty-five minutes for the operation in the case of a mousse made ina quart mould.</p>
		<p>The preparation is seen to be cooked when it swells andrises in the mould.</p>
		<p>As soon as this occurs, withdraw the latter from the bain-marie; let it stand for five minutes, that its contents may settle;turn it upside-down on a dish, and wait two minutes beforeremoving the mould. In any case, do not take off the moulduntil the liquid which has drained from it, all round the dish, has been soaked up. Ham mousses are chiefly accompaniedby Supreme sauce, or Veloutés with curry or paprika; some-times, too, a highly-seasoned and buttered half-glaze sauce, with Madeira, Port, or Marsala may be used. The most suit-able garnishes for ham mousses are those I have already givenfor Ham.</p>
		<h3 id="1432" class="formula">Treatment and Poaching of Ham Mousselines</h3>
		<p>As I have already stated, moussclines, like quenelles, aremoulded with a spoon.</p>
		<p>They may also be laid, by means of a piping-bag, on thebottom of the well-buttered sauté-pan in which they are to bepoached; they are shaped like meringues, even or grooved,</p>
		<p>47°</p>
		<p>and, in either case, they are decorated with lozenges, crescents, or discs, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.</abbr>, of ham or truffle.</p>
		<p>Having carried out the selected method of preparation, cover them with boiling water, salted to the extent of one-third oz. per quart, and poach them for from eighteen to twentyminutes, taking care to keep the water at a constant temperatureof 208°F. These mousselines may also be poached dry in asteamer or in a drying stove.</p>
		<p>•433—MOUSSELINES de JAMBON ALEXANDRA</p>
		<p>Decorate the mousselines, prepared according to one of thetwo methods above described, with one lozenge of ham andanother of truffle. Poach them; drain them well, and dishthem in the form of a crown. Cover them with an Allemandesauce, flavoured with ham essence, and combined with two oz.of grated Parmesan per pint of the sauce, and glaze quickly.</p>
		<p>After taking the mousselines out of the oven, set in theirmidst a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1434" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINES de JAMBON à la FLORENTINE</h3>
		<p>Spread a layer of shredded spinach, fried in butter, on adish.</p>
		<p>Upon it set the poached and well-drained mousselines; coverthem with the same sauce as that prescribed for the “Mousse-lines Alexandra,” and glaze them quickly.</p>
		<p>•435—MOUSSELINES de JAMBON à la HONGROISE</p>
		<p>Poach the mousselines, the forcemeat of which must beflavoured with paprika. Drain them; dish them in a circle;cover them with Ilongroise sauce, and glaze them quickly.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing the dish from the oven, set a fine heap ofbaked cauliflowers with cheese in the middle of it.</p>
		<h3 id="1436" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINES de JAMBON aux PETITS POIS</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as described under №1433, but substitutefor the asparagus-heads a garnish of very small peas coheredwith butter.</p>
		<p>Cold Ham.</p>
		<p>•437—JAMBON FROID à la GELEE</p>
		<p>When ham is to be dished cold, it should, if possible, beallowed to cool in its cooking-liquor, except when it has to beboned. In the latter case, take it out as soon as it is cooked;incise it underneath, following the edge of the cushion; detachand remove the bones.</p>
		<p>Relevés and ENTREES</p>
				<p>Now roll up the ham; bind it tightly in a piece of linen, andcool it under pressure.</p>
		<p>Whether boned or unboned, skin it when it is cold; removesome of its fat, and sprinkle it wdth cold, melted aspic untilthe latter covers it evenly.</p>
		<p>Dish it up; fix a frill to it, and surround it with fine aspicdice.</p>
		<h3 id="1438" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAMBON Soufflé FROID</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as in №1421, but substitute for thesouffle preparation therein described the cold ham mousse below.</p>
		<h3 id="1439" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Mousse FROIDE de JAMBON</h3>
		<p>The Preparation of the Mousse.—Finely pound one lb. ofvery lean, cooked ham; add to it one-third pint of cold Velouffi, and rub through a fine sieve.</p>
		<p>Put the resulting purée into a basin; season it; work it onice for a few minutes, and mix therewith, little by little, one-quarter pint of melted aspic. Finally combine two-thirds pintof half-beaten cream wdth it.</p>
		<p>The mousse may be moulded, either in an aspic-clothedmould, decorated with truffles, as explained under №956, or insmall cassolettes, lined with a thin strip of paper inside theirbrims, after the manner of small, cold souffles.</p>
		<p>As the dishing and serving of mousses are always the same, the reader is begged to refer to those recipes dealing with thequestion.</p>
		<h3 id="1440" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Mousse FROIDE de JAMBON A d’Alsacienne</h3>
		<p>Take a deep, square dish and garnish it, half-full, with fine, ham mousse. Even the surface of this layer of mousse, and, when it has set, arrange upon it some shells, raised by meansof a spoon dipped in hot water, from a foie-gras Parfait. Assoon as this is done, pour over the foie-gras shells, a sufficientquantity to cover them of half-melted succulent chicken aspicwith Madeira, and let this jelly set.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1441" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Mousse de JAMBON au BLANC de POULET</h3>
		<p>Garnish a deep, square dish with some ham mousse. Whenthe latter has set, arrange thereon the suprêmes of a very white, poached fowl. These suprêmes, cut into regular collops, shouldbe coated wdth a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#72">white chaud-froid sauce</a>.</p>
		<p>Cover with aspic, as directed under “Mousse hl’Alsacienne,” and serve.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—If desired, the collops need not be coated with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#35">chaud-froid sauce</a>, but, in this case, they should be covered with aspic.</p>
	</body>
</html>