<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Relevés and Entrées of Game and Poultry</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XVI <span epub:type="title">Relevés and Entrées of Game and Poultry</span></h1>
		<h3 id="1442" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—M0U5SELINES FROIDES de JAMBON</h3>
		<p>These mousselines are made from the same preparation asthat used for the mousse, and, but for the basic ingredient,which is not the same, they are treated after the manner de-scribed under “Petites Mousses de Homard” (No. 958). Toavoid needless repetition, therefore, the reader will kindly sub-stitute the word ham for lobster in the recipe just referred to.</p>
		<p>r</p>
		<p>CHAPTER XVI</p>
		<p>POULTRY (VOLAILLE).</p>
		<p>Although the term “poultry” (Fr. volaille), in its generalsense, implies Turkeys, Geese, Ducks and Pigeons, just as wellas Fowls, only the latter are meant, from the culinary stand-point, when the word “Volaille” appears on a menu.</p>
		<p>Four qualities of fowl are recognised in cookery, and eachplays its part, has its uses, and is quite distinct from the otherthree. We have: —</p>
		<p>(1) Pullets and capons; usually served whole, either asrelev^s or roasts.</p>
		<p>(2) Chickens, so-called “h la Reine”; used for sautes andchiefly for roasts.</p>
		<p>(3) Spring chickens; best suited to en cocotte or grilledpreparations.</p>
		<p>(4) Chicks; served only en cocotte or grilled.</p>
		<p>Supremes and ailerons of fowl, which are among the finestentries, are supplied by chickens h la Reine or by Springchickens.</p>
		<p>Finally, there are the giblets, consisting of the pinions,necks, gizzards, and livers of fowl, which give rise to a numberof preparations, the recipes whereof I shall give briefly at theend of the series.</p>
		<h3 id="1443" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PULLETS and CAPONS for RELEVES</h3>
		<p>Pullets and capons for relev^s and entries are poached orpoeled; sometimes, but more rarely, they are braised.</p>
		<p>The birds to be treated by poaching are trussed with theclaw's "folded back and inserted into the belly; their fillets andlegs are rubbed with lemon, so as to keep them white, and theyare then covered with thin slices of larding bacon.</p>
		<p>The ingredients for chicken poaching stock were given underNo. 249. The bird is known to be cooked when the bloodwhich issues from a prick on the leg is white or faintly pink.</p>
		<p>These fowls are sometimes larded or studded. When this isto be done, dip the legs and belly of a trussed and lemon-</p>
		<p>474</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>rubbed fowl into boiling white stock; this will be found tosufficiently harden the flesh to allow of its being treated in therequired way. The products used for studding and larding are,according to circumstances, ham or tongue, truffles or mush-rooms, and sometimes, the red part of a carrot for the larding.Only truffles, ham and tongue are used for studding.</p>
		<p>Poeled fowls are trussed as above; they are covered withslices of bacon in order that the fillets may be protected duringthe first stages of the cooking; then they are cooked in butteron poeling-aromatics, under cover and in a deep, thick sauce-pan. When the piece is almost cooked, just moisten it a little,either with rich poultry-stock, with the cooking-liquor of trufflesor mushrooms, with Madeira, red or white wine, &amp;c. Thismoistening serves in the basting of the fowl and must there-fore be renewed if it reduces too quickly. After having beencleared of all grease, it is always added to the sauce whichaccompanies the piece of poultry.</p>
		<p>Braised fowls are always treated after the manner describedunder No. 248; they are not rubbed with lemon, but they arecovered with slices of bacon. The latter should only cover thebreast, but be thick, notwithstanding; for they protect the belly,which, without them, would shrivel by the time the legs cooked.</p>
		<p>The covering of bacon is essential to all pieces of poultry,whether these be poached, poeled, braised or roasted.</p>
		<h3 id="1444" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—THE WAY TO 5ERVE POULTRY RELEVESQUICKLY and HOT</h3>
		<p>I feel bound to call the reader’s attention to this very im-portant point in culinary work</p>
		<p>Owing to the difficulties involved in the carving of the fowland the placing and arranging of the pieces and their garnishupon the consumers’ plates—both of which operations requiredexterity and expertness, which those in charge very often donot possess, or thanks to the inefficiency of particular installa-tions, or wfflat not, I have noticed for some considerable time,that the method of serving large pieces of poultry is, in manycases, very far from being the right one.</p>
		<p>For, indeed, how often does not the diner find himself pre-sented with a plate of fowl which is neither appetisingly daintynor yet sufficiently hot 1 It follows from this, that all the careand trouble devoted by a chef to the preparation of the dish areentirely wasted. Now, I have tried to improve this state ofaffairs, by planning a method of serving which would be atonce simple and expeditious, without necessarily being devoidof tastefulness and presentability.</p>
		<p>475</p>
		<p>In the first place, it is my practice to remove the fowl’s twosupremes, in the kitchen, and to keep them warm in a littlecooking-liquor until the last minute. Secondly, I remove allthe bones of the breast, and I reconstruct the fowl with agarnish in keeping with the dish, i.e., either a mousseline force-meat, pilaff rice combined with cream, foie gras and truffles,spaghetti, or noodles with cream.</p>
		<p>Having properly smoothed and arranged the selected gar-nish, the fowl may now be placed, either at one end of any buta round dish, or on a low cushion of fried bread, on which itmay be set firmly.</p>
		<p>It may also be entirely coated with Mornay sauce, sprinkledwith grated cheese, and speedily glazed.</p>
		<p>When the body of the bird is dished, its garnish should beset round it in fine, tartlet crusts; its supremes, quickly sliced,should be distributed among the tartlets, and the dish sent tothe table with the sauce separately.</p>
		<p>By this means, it reaches the table hot, it is served quicklyand cleanly; and every person gets a slice of meat, and notgarnish only, as was so often the case formerly.</p>
		<p>Instead of tartlets, one may use thin croutons of bread, ofthe size of the slices of chicken, and fried in fresh butter.</p>
		<p>Thus, for a “Poularde k la Derby,” after having stuffedthe pullet with rice, suppressed the bones of the breast, andremoved the supremes; all that is necessary is to properly shapethe rice, and to dish the fowl on a cushion.</p>
		<p>This done, prepare as many croutons and slices of foie-gras, sautdd in butter, as there are diners, and arrange themround the pullet—the slices of foie-gras lying on the croutons.Now, quickly cut the supremes into slices; put one of theseon each slice of foie-gras, and on each of the latter put a sliceof truffle. Put the pullet, thus prepared, in the oven for a fewminutes; let it get very hot, and send it to the table with thesauce separately.</p>
		<p>In the dining-room the Maitre-d’hotel quickly serves thegarnished croutons on hot plates, beside each crouton he putsa tablespoonful of the rice with which the pullet has been stuffed,and, finally, a tablespoonful of sauce.</p>
		<p>In less than two minutes after its entrance into the dining-room, the pullet is thus served w^arm to each person.</p>
		<p>Of course, the above measures refer to the fowl that has tobe dished whole and presented; but, when this is not required,the rice withdrawn from the cooked bird need only be setin the centre of. a deep, square entree dish (fitted with a cover),</p>
		<p>476</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>and surrounded by the sliced supremes, with intercalated slicesof foie-gras and truffle. The sauce is also served separately inthis case. Cover the dish, so that it may stand and keep hota few minutes, if necessary, without spoiling.</p>
		<p>The legs, which are rarely served at a well-ordered dinner,remain in the kitchen together with the carcass.</p>
		<p>I cannot too strongly recommend the system just described,whenever the circumstances allow of its being put into practice.It is the only one that ensures an efficient service, calculatedto give entire satisfaction to all concerned.</p>
		<h3 id="1445" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE ALBUFERA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with the rice prescribed under No. 2256, andpoach it. Dish it and coat with Albuffira sauce.</p>
		<p>Surround with small tartlet crusts, garnished with trufflesraised by means of a spoon the size of a pea; quenelles of thesame shape; small button mushrooms, and cocks’ kidneys.Cohere this garnish with Albuffira sauce.</p>
		<p>Between each tartlet, place a slice of salted tongue, cut tothe shape of a cock’s comb.</p>
		<h3 id="1446" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE ALEXANDRA</h3>
		<p>Having larded the pullet with tongue and truffle, poach it.This done, remove the supremes, and replace them by mous-seline forcemeat; smooth this forcemeat, giving it the shape ofthe pullet in so doing, and set to poach in the front of the oven.</p>
		<p>Now, coat the piece with Mornay sauce, and glaze quickly.Dish, and surround with tartlet-crusts garnished with asparagus-heads, cohered with butter; place a collop of the reservedsupremes (which should have been kept hot) on each tartlet,and border the dish with a thread of pale glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1447" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE AMBASSADRICE</h3>
		<p>Stud the pullet with truffles, cover it with a Matignon (No.227), wrap it in muslin, and braise it.</p>
		<p>Remove the supremes; suppress the bones of the breast;fill the carcass with a garnish of asparagus-heads, cohered withbutter, and arrange this garnish as already described under No.1444.</p>
		<p>Slice the supremes, and put them back on the garnish,in suchwise as to reconstruct the breast of the fowl. Coat thepiece with somewhat stiff and fine supreme sauce; dish it,and surround it with lamb sweet-breads, studded with truffles,</p>
		<p>477</p>
		<p>braised and glazed, and alternate the sweetbreads with littlefaggots of asparagus-heads.</p>
		<h3 id="1448" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE ANDALOUSE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet. Dish it, and coat it with its poeling-liquor, combined with tomated half-glaze sauce. On eitherside of it set some capsicums, stuffed with rice, and someroundels of egg-plant, seasoned, dredged and tossed in butter;alternating the two products.</p>
		<h3 id="1449" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à l’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet, and coat it with a Bechamel sauce fla-voured with chicken-essence.</p>
		<p>Dish it and surround it with slices of salted tongue, laidtile-fashion on either side; and heaps of carrots and turnips(cut to the shape of balls) and peas and celery, at either end.All these vegetables should be cooked a I’anglaise; i.e., eitherin boiling water or in steam.</p>
		<h3 id="1450" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à l’AURORE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet without colouration; dish it, and coat itwith an “Aurore Sauce” (No. 60). Surround it with medium-sized, decorated quenelles; and trimmed oval slices of saltedtongue, arranged according to fancy.</p>
		<h3 id="1451" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la BEAUFORT</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with a fine foie-gras, stiffened in the ovenfor twenty minutes with a little Madeira, and cooled.</p>
		<p>Fill up the pullet with a little, fine sausage-meat; stud itwith truffles, and braise it in short moistening.</p>
		<p>Dish it on a low cushion, and surround it with braised,lambs’ tongues, alternated with artichoke-bottoms, garnishedwith a rosette of Soubise puree. As an adjunct, use thebraising-liquor, cleared of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1452" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE BOUILLIE à l’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cook the pullet in light, white stock with one lb. of breastof bacon and a garnish of vegetables as for pot-au-feu. Dish,and surround with the bacon, cut into slices.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, an English parsley sauce, and a sauceboatof the pullet’s cooking-liquor.</p>
		<p>M53—POULARDE aux CELERIS</p>
		<p>Poele the pullet, and baste it towards the close of the opera-tion with strong veal stock.</p>
		<p>Prepare a garnish of braised celery.</p>
		<p>478</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet; surround it with the braised celery, andcover the latter with the poeling-Uquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1454" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE aux CHAMPIGNONS A BRUN</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet, and swill the saucepan with mushroomessence. Add this swilling-liquor (reduced) to one-quarter pintof half-glaze with Madeira.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet, and surround it with twenty grooved andcooked mushroom-heads. Serve separately the reduced half-glaze, to which add two oz. of fresh butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1455" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE aux CHAMPIGNONS A BLANCPoach the pullet.</h3>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce flavoured withmushroom essence.</p>
		<p>Surround it with twenty grooved, cooked and very whitemushroom-heads.</p>
		<h3 id="1456" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE CHANOINESSE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a “Poularde Souffle” after recipe No. 1518. Dishit, and surround it with small heaps of crayfishes’ tails, alter-nated with small croutons of fried bread, on each of which placea collop of the supremes. Finish off with a slice of truffle oneach collop of the supremes.</p>
		<p>Serve a Mornay sauce, finished with crayfish butter, separ-ately.</p>
		<h3 id="1457" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE CHATELAINE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet without letting it acquire too much colour.Dish it, and surround it with small artichoke-bottoms, stewedin butter and garnished with Soubise.</p>
		<p>Alternate the artichoke-bottoms with small heaps of chestnutscooked in consommd and glazed.</p>
		<p>Pour a little thickened poeling-liquor on the bottom of thedish, and serve what remains of it, separately, in a sauceboat.</p>
		<h3 id="1458" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE CHEVALIERE</h3>
		<p>Remove the supremes, and the minion fillets. Lard theformer with two rows of truffles and two rows of tongue; trimthe minion fillets; make five or six slits in each; insert a thinslice of truffle half-way into each slit, and draw the respectiveends of the two fillets together in suchwise as to form two rings.Put the supremes and the minion fillets each into a butteredsaut6pan, and cover the latter.</p>
		<p>Remove the pullet’s legs, keeping the skin as long as pos-sible; bone them to within one and one-third inches of the</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>479</p>
		<p>joints, and cut off the claws, aslant, just below the same joints.Garnish the boned regions with godiveau prepared with creamclose the opening by means of a few stitches of strong cotton,and truss each leg in such a manner as to imitate a small duck.</p>
		<p>Poach these stuffed legs in stock made from the pullet’scarcass.</p>
		<p>Also poach the supremes and the minion fillets in good time,with a little mushroom cooking-liquor, and a few drops oflemon juice.</p>
		<p>With a pinch of flour mixed with water, stick a fried crouton(the shape of a pyramid, three inches high and of twro inchbase) in the middle of a dish.</p>
		<p>Around this pyramid, arrange the twro stuffed legs and thetwo supremes; putting each of them on a decorated quenellewith the view of slightly raising them. Set the minion filletson the legs, and, between the latter and the supremes, lay smallheaps of cocks’ combs and kidneys, and some very white mush-room-heads. Pierce the crouton with a liatelet garnished withone truffle, one fine cock’s comb, and a large mushroom.</p>
		<p>Serve a supreme sauce separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This dish is generally bordered, either with noodle-paste, white English paste, or with a chased silver border.</p>
		<h3 id="1459" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE CHIMAY</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of half-poached noodles,tossed in butter, and combined with a little cream and threeoz. of foie-gras cut into large dice.</p>
		<p>Poele it gently; dish it, and coat it with some of its poeling-liquor, thickened.</p>
		<p>Distribute over the pullet a copious amount of raw noodles,sauted in clarified butter; and serve the remainder of the thick-ened poeling-liquor separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1460" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE CHIPOLATA</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet and put it into a terrine a pate with a gar-nish consisting of small, glazed onions; chipolata sausages,poached in butter; chestnuts cooked in consomm^; fried piecesof baco'n; and, if desired, some small glazed carrots.</p>
		<p>Add the pullet’s cooking-liquor, and simmer for ten minutesbefore serving.</p>
		<h3 id="1461" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la CHIVRY</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet. Dish it and coat it with Chivry sauce(No. 78).</p>
		<p>Serve a Macedoine of new vegetables* cohered with butteror cream, separately.</p>
		<p>480</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1462" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE CUSSY</h3>
		<p>Braise the pullet. Dish it and surround it with wholetruffles, cooked in Mirepoix with Madeira, and alternated withfine, grilled mushrooms, garnished with artichoke purée.</p>
		<p>In front of the pullet set a small, silver shell, in which shapea pyramid of large cocks’ combs, heated in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1463" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE EN DEMI-DEUIL</h3>
		<p>Between the skin and the fillets of the fowl insert a few fineslices of raw truffle. Lard the pullet and poach it.</p>
		<p>When it is ready, strain the cooking-liquor through a napkin ;reduce it, and add it to a very white supreme sauce, containingslices of truffle.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet; cook it with some of the sauce, and sendwhat remains, separately, in a sauceboat.</p>
		<h3 id="1464" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE DEMIDOFF</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet. When it is three-parts done, put it intoa cocotte and surround it with the following garnish, preparedin advance and stewed in butter; viz one-half lb. of carrotsand five oz. of turnips, cut into grooved crescents, one inch indiameter; five oz. of small onions cut into thin roundels, andfive oz. of celery.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the pullet with this garnish, andadd to it, when about to serve, three oz. of truffles, cut to theshape of crescents, and one-sixth pint of chicken stock.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation in the cocotte, after having cleared theliquor of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1465" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE DERBY</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256;and poele it. Dish, and surround it with collops of foie-gras,tossed in butter (each set on a small, fried crouton), and alter-nate these with large, whole truffles, cooked in champagne.</p>
		<p>As an adjunct, serve the pullet’s cooking-liquor, cleared ofall grease, combined with the cooking-liquor of the truffles andone-sixth pint of veal gravy. Reduce the whole to one-sixthpint and thicken with arrow-root.</p>
		<h3 id="1466" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE DIVA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256, andpoach it without colouration.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with supreme sauce, flavoured withpaprika.</p>
		<p>Send a garnish consisting of cepes with cream, separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This dish was served for the first time to Mme.Adelina Patti, the great singer.</p>
		<h3 id="1467" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE DEVONSHIRE</h3>
		<p>Bone the breast of a fine pullet; season it inside, and fill itwith a chicken forcemeat, prepared with cream and mixed withhalf its weight of very fine sausage-meat.</p>
		<p>In the middle of the pullet set a nice salted and cookedcalf’s tongue, trimmed and cleared of all cartilage; and placeit so that its thin end lies in the region of the bird’s tail.</p>
		<p>Sew up the pullet’s belly with thin string, allowing the skinsufficient play not to tear under the pressure of the forcemeat,which swells while cooking. Truss, cover the pullet with aslice of larding bacon, poach, and drain it.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, make an incision around the breastwith the point of a knife; detach the stuffing with the bladeof a knife, passed horizontally on a level with the spine, andcut off, at a stroke, the piece consisting of the pullet’s breast,the stuffing, and the calf’s tongue.</p>
		<p>Dish the carcass with the legs and wings still attached, ona low cushion. Cut the breast, lengthwise, into two; and, ifthe fowl has been properly stuffed, the tongue should then befound neatly bisected. Slice each half, and return them tothe carcass in suchwise as to reconstruct the bird and give itan untouched appearance.</p>
		<p>Coat lightly with Allemande sauce, combined with very redtongue, cut into dice; and surround with a border of timbalesmade from a purée of fresh peas (No. 2196), each set on an arti-choke bottom. Serve a sauceboat of the same sauce as that withwhich the pullet was coated.</p>
		<h3 id="1468" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à l’ECOSSAISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with pearl barley cooked in white consomm£,well drained, and combined, per lb., with an equal quantity offine sausage-meat (to which has been added a chopped onion,cooked in butter), and two tablespoonfuls of cream.</p>
		<p>Poach the pullet in the usual way; dish it and coat it withEcossaise sauce, i.e., an Allemande sauce, combined with abrunoise of vegetables: carrots, onions, leeks, and celery, anda large part of the reduced pullet’s poaching-liquor.</p>
		<p>Serve a garnish of French beans with cream, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1469" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE EDOUARD VII</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256,and poach it without colouration. Dish it, and coat it with a</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>482</p>
		<p>curry sauce, combined with two oz. of red capsicums in dice,per pint of sauce.</p>
		<p>Serve a garnish of cucumbers with cream, separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This dish was originated at the Carlton Hotel onthe occasion of His Majesty King Edw’ard VII.’s Coronation.</p>
		<h3 id="1470" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE EN ESTOUFFADE</h3>
		<p>HaU-poele the pullet in a saucepan.</p>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of an oval cocotte with thin slicesof ham. Put the haH-poeled pullet into this cocotte, togetherwith one lb. of carrots, onions, and celery, all three sliced, friedin butter and moderately seasoned with salt and pepper.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with one-third pint of strong veal stock;reduce to half; put this reduced stock into the cocotte; cover thelatter; seal down the lid with a thread of paste, and completethe cooking of the pullet in a somewhat hot oven for three-quarters of an hour.</p>
		<h3 id="1471" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à l’ESTRAGON</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet, and add to the ordinary garnish a bunchconsisting of five or six sprigs of tarragon.</p>
		<p>Dish, and decorate the pullet’s breast with a nice sprayof blanched tarragon leaves.</p>
		<p>Reduce and strain the pullet’s cooking-liquor, and serveit separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1472" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la FAVORITE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of rice, prepared afterrecipe No. 2256.</p>
		<p>Poach it; dish it, and coat with a supreme sauce.</p>
		<p>Surround with a garnish of cocks’ combs and kidneys,and slices of truffle.</p>
		<h3 id="1473" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la FERMIERE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the pullet as for No. 1470; but, instead of liningthe cocotte with slices of ham, cut the latter into dice and addthese to the garnish, together with four oz. of peas and fouroz. of French beans, cut into small lozenges.</p>
		<h3 id="1474" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la FINANCIERE</h3>
		<p>Braise the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and surround it with a garnish consisting of smallheaps of quenelles made from chicken, mousseline forcemeat;grooved, button-mushroom heads; cocks’ combs and kidneys;</p>
		<p>POULTRY 483</p>
		<p>slices of truffle, and blanched olives. Add a small quantity ofhalf-glaze sauce prepared with truffle essence.</p>
		<p>Send a sauceboat of the same sauce separately.</p>
		<p>M75—POULARDE à la GASTRONOMF</p>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of noodles, slightly tossedin butter, and poele it.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with one-quarter pint of champagne.Dish the pullet and surround it with medium-sized truffles,cooked in champagne, alternated with small heaps of cookedand glazed chestnuts, and place a cock’s kidney between eachheap.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffleessence and combined with the reduced swilling-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1476" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la GODARD</h3>
		<p>Braise the pullet brown.</p>
		<p>Dish it and surround it with spoon-moulded quenelles offorcemeat, combined with chopped mushrooms and truffles;large oval quenelles, decorated with tongue and truffle; groovedbutton-mushroom heads; cocks’ combs and kidneys; glazedsmall lambs’ sweetbreads; and olive-shaped truffles.</p>
		<p>Slightly coat this garnish with Godard sauce, combinedwith some reduced braising-liquor, and send what remains ofthe latter in a sauceboat.</p>
		<h3 id="1477" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la GRAMMONT</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet, and let it half-cool.</p>
		<p>Now remove the supremes and the bones of the breast; fillup the cavity in the carcass with a garnish consisting of larks’fillets, sauted just before dishing; grooved button-mushroomheads; cocks’ combs and kidneys; and cohere the whole bymeans of Bechamel sauce, finished with truffle essence.</p>
		<p>Slice the supremes, and return them to their place, setting aslice of truffle between each. Coat the pullet with a stiff Alle-mande sauce; sprinkle with grated Parmesan and melted butter;glaze quickly, and serve at once.</p>
		<h3 id="1478" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE GRAND HOTEL</h3>
		<p>Cut up the fowl as for a saute dish, and cook it in butter,under cover. Then set the pieces in a very hot cocotte, anddistribute thereupon five ox. of raw truffles cut into thick slicesand slightly salted and peppered.</p>
		<p>Swill the sautepan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine;add a little chicken stock; pour this liquor into the cocottc;</p>
		<p>l I 2</p>
		<p>484</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>thoroughly close the latter, and put it in a very hot oven foreight or ten minutes with the view of cooking the truffles.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation as it stands in the cocotte.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This dish was invented at the Grand Hotel at MonteCarlo, as a means of offering to those who could not wait forthe preparation of truffled pullets a substitute of a somewhatsimilar nature to the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="1479" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE au GROS SEL</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet, and add to it ten small olive-shaped carrotsand ten small onions.</p>
		<p>Dish, and surround the bird with the carrots and the onions,arranged in small heaps.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a sauceboat containing the pullet’s cook-ing-liquor, and a seller of kitchen salt.</p>
		<h3 id="1480" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la GRECQUE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2253,and pocle it.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with very strong reduced chicken stock,thickened by means of arrowroot.</p>
		<h3 id="1481" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la HONGROISEPoele the pullet.</h3>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with Hongroise sauce, and surround it withtimbales of pilaff rice, combined with tomato pulp, cut intodice.</p>
		<p>Send a Hongroise sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1482" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE aux HUiTRES</h3>
		<p>Boil the pullet gently in light, white stock, until it is wellcooked. With the cooking-liquor prepare a supreme sauce,and add thereto the almost entirely reduced poaching-liquor oftwenty-four oysters, one-half pint of cream, and the twenty-fouroysters (cleared of their beards).</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet, and pour this sauce over it.</p>
		<h3 id="1483" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à l’INDIENNEPoach the pullet.</h3>
		<p>Dish it; coat with Indienne sauce, and serve a timbale ofrice h l’lndienne, prepared after recipe No. 2254, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1484" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE ISABELLE de FRANCE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rizotto, combined with two oz. oftruffle slices and eighteen crayfishes’ tails, and poach it in whitestock containing one bottle of Chablis wine.</p>
		<p>With the pullet’s cooking-liquor prepare a highly-seasoned</p>
		<p>485</p>
		<p>supreme sauce. Dish the bird on a small cushion; coat it withsauce, and surround it with fine black truffles, cooked in cham-pagne, and set each on a small, round, and slightly hollowedcrouton of fried bread.</p>
		<p>Serve the remainder of the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1485" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à l’lVOIRE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet, keeping it very white. Dish it, and serveit plain.</p>
		<p>Send, separately, an ivory sauce, a sauceboat of the pullet’scooking-liquor, and some kind of garnish, such as macaroni ornoodles with cream cepes, cucumber, &amp;c.</p>
		<p>i486—POULARDE LADY CURZON</p>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256,and poach it.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with an Indienne sauce.</p>
		<p>A garnish of cepes or cucumber with cream may be servedat the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1487" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE LOUISE D’ORLEANS</h3>
		<p>Insert a whole foie gras into the pullet, the former havingbeen studded with truffles, poached for fifteen minutes in somesucculent veal stock, and one glassful of old Madeira, and afterwards cooled.</p>
		<p>Stiffen and colour the pullet for twenty minutes in the oven,sprinkling it with butter the while.</p>
		<p>Cover it entirely with thick slices of truffles; cover thesewith slices of bacon, and envelop the whole in a layer of plaindough, which should be well sealed up. Set the pullet, pre-pared in this way, on a baking-tray; make a slit in the top ofthe paste for the escape of steam during the cooking process,and cook in a moderate oven for one and three-quarter hours.</p>
		<p>This pullet is served as it stands, cold or hot.</p>
		<h3 id="1488" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la LOUISIANE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one lb. of maize with cream, combined</p>
		<p>with one and one-half oz. of capsicums cut into dice, and poeleit. Dish it and border it, on either side, with timbales of riceand fried bananas, arranged alternately. At either end of thedish set a croustade of lining paste, garnished with maize “hI3. cr^mc#5*</p>
		<h3 id="1489" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la LUCULLU5</h3>
		<p>Braise the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and surround it with (1) fine truffles, cooked inchampagne, alternated with (2) large, round quenelles ofmousseline forcemeat. At either end of the dish, which should</p>
		<p>486</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>be oval, set a small silver shell of the same height as thecushion on which the pullet lies.</p>
		<p>Garnish these shells with very white, curled cocks’ combsand cocks’ kidneys. Add the reduced braising-liquor to a half-glaze sauce, flavoured with truffle essence; cover the bottom ofthe dish with some of this sauce, and send what remains,separately, in a sauceboat.</p>
		<p>[490—POULARDE à la MANCIN1</p>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Remove the supremes; suppress the bones of the breastwithout touching either the pinions or the legs, and set thecarcass, thus prepared, on a very low cushion of bread or rice,so that it may be steady.</p>
		<p>Fill the carcass with macaroni, cohered with cheese andcream, and combined with three oz. of foie gras in dice, andone-half oz. of a julienne of truffles.</p>
		<p>Slice the supremes, and reconstruct them on the macaroni,placing a fine slice of truffle between each. Coat the pulletwith a stiff and unctuous cream sauce; sprinkle with gratedcheese, and glaze quickly at the salamander.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a creamy supreme sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1491" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE MARGUERITE de SAVOIE</h3>
		<p>Fry quickly ten larks in butter, insert these info a finepullet, and braise the latter in veal stock and white Savoywine, in equal quantities. Prepare a milk polenta (No. 2294);spread it on a tray in layers one inch thick, and let it cool.Now stamp it with a round cutter one and one-half inches indiameter, and, a few minutes before serving, dredge theseroundels of polenta, and brown them in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Just before dishing up, sprinkle them with grated Parmesan,and glaze them quickly at the salamander.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet on a very low cushion of fried bread; sur-round it with the glazed roundels of polenta; pour a little of thefowl’s cooking-liquor, thickened, over the dish, and send whatremains of it in a sauceboat.</p>
		<p>Serve at the same time a vegetable-dish of white Piedmonttruffles, slightly heated in a Tittle butter and some consomm£.</p>
		<h3 id="1492" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POUI ARDE à la M^NAGfeRE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet in some rather gelatinous white stock.Slice six carrots, six new potatoes, six new onions; put thewhole into a saucepan, and cook gently in the fowl’s poaching-liquor, with the lid of the saucepan off. When the vegetables</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>487</p>
		<p>are cooked, and the liquor is sufficiently reduced, set the pulletin a special oval cocotte, and cover it with the prepared vege-tables and their cooking-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1493" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE MIREILLE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; surround it with small timbales of rice with saffron,alternated with tartlet crusts, garnished with concassed tomatoescooked in butter, and set a fine, stoned olive on each tartlet.</p>
		<p>Serve a tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1494" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la MONTBAZON</h3>
		<p>Stud the pullet with truffles, and poach it.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, and surround it withpoached lamb sweetbreads, spoon-moulded quenelles of mous-seline, chicken forcemeat, and grooved mushroom heads, ar-ranged alternately.</p>
		<p>Serve a supreme sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1495" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la MONTE CARLO</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, and surround it on theone side with quenelles of pink, mousseline, chicken forcemeat,and on the other with a border of fair-sized, very black truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1496" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la MONTMORENCY</h3>
		<p>Lard the pullet with truffles, and braise it in Madeira.</p>
		<p>Set it on an oval dish, and, at either end of the latter, placea fine, decorated quenelle; on either side of the fowl arrangesome artichoke-bottoms, garnished with asparagus-heads,cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a half-glaze sauce with Madeira, to whichthe braising-liquor of the pullet has been added.</p>
		<h3 id="1497" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la NANTUA</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with a supreme sauce, finished with crayfishbutter, and surround it with small heaps of quenelles withcrayfish butter, crayfishes’ tails, and slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>498—POULARDE à l’ORIENTALE</p>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one lb. of pilaff rice with saffron, andpoach it.</p>
		<p>Remove its supremes; suppress the breast-bones by meansof scissors, without touching the rice, and coat the latter with</p>
		<p>488</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Bechamel sauce coloured with tomato sauce and flavoured withsaffron.</p>
		<p>Dish; reconstruct the sliced supremes on the rice, and setbetween each slice another of chow-chow stewed in butter.Cover the pullet with the same sauce as that indicated above,and surround it with quarters of chow-chow cooked in butter, orserve this garnish separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1499" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE aux CEUFS D’or</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet without letting it acquire overmuch colour.</p>
		<p>Strain the poeling-liquor; clear it of all grease; add theretoa little tomato purée, and thicken it with arrowroot. Finishwith three oz. of butter, the juice of half a lemon, and a littlecayenne.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet; surround it with a border of egg-shapedcroquettes of egg with truffles, and send the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1500" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la PARI5IENNE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; cover it with Allemande sauce, and decorate it ontop with slices of truffles and salted tongue cut to the shape ofcocks’ combs.</p>
		<p>Surround with spoon-moulded quenelles of chicken force-meat, half of which should have been combined with choppedtruffles, and the other half with chopped, salted ox-tongue.</p>
		<p>Arrange the quenelles round the fowl, alternately, andborder the dish with a thread of pale glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1501" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE ADELINA PATTI</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after recipe No. 2256,and poach it in white, chicken stock. Dish it on a low cushion;cover it with a supreme sauce, flavoured with paprika, andsurround it with fair-sized artichoke-bottoms, each garnishedwith a fine truffle, coated with pale meat glaze.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a sauceboat of the same sauce as thatalready used in coating the pullet.</p>
		<h3 id="1502" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la PAYSANNE</h3>
		<p>Brown the pullet in butter, and put it into an oval cocotte.</p>
		<p>Around it set a garnish consisting of four oz. of the red partof a carrot, three oz. of onion, and two oz. of celery, all threeminced somewhat finely. Complete the cooking of the pulletwith the vegetables, sprinkling it often the while with goodveal stock.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation as it stands in the cocotte.</p>
		<p>489</p>
		<h3 id="1503" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la PERIGORD</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of truffles in the shape of</p>
		<p>large olives, cooked in two oz. of melted pork fat, and mixed,while hot, with one lb. of fresh, grated pork fat, rubbed througha sieve. String the piece, taking care to close all its openings,and poele it gently.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with a very fine half-glaze sauce, made fromthe ^oeh'wg-liquor and finished with truffle essence.</p>
		<h3 id="1504" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE PETITE MARIEE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet in a little white stock, and surround it (when</p>
		<p>setting it to cook) with six small new onions, six small carrots,six small new potatoes, and one-quarter pint of freshly-shelledpeas.</p>
		<p>Set the pullet in a cocoite with the garnish of vegetables, andcoat it with its reduced cooking-liquor, combined with someexcellent supreme sauce.</p>
		<p>*505—POULARDE à la PIEMONTAISE</p>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with two-thirds lb. of rizotto combined withone-half lb. of white sliced truffles, and poele it in the usualway.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and serve at the same time a thickened chickengravy to which has been added the reduced f oeling-Wquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1506" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la PORTUGAISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with three-quarters lb. of rice, combinedwith five oz. of peeled and concassed tomatoes, cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>Poele the pullet. Dish it; coat it with a Portugaise sauce,combined with the poeling-liquor, and surround it with agarnish of medium-sized tomatoes, stuffed with rice “k laPortugaise.”</p>
		<h3 id="1507" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE PRINCE5SE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce, flavoured withmushroom essence and finished with two oz. of asparagus-headbutter per pint of sauce. Surround it with croustades ofDuches.se potatoes, rolled in breadcrumbs and melted butter,fried, emptied, then garnished with asparagus-heads coheredwith butter, and each surmounted by a fine slice of truffle.Between each croustade set a faggot of very green asparagus-tiCcids*</p>
		<h3 id="1508" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE PRINCESSE HELENEStuff the pullet with rice prepared after recipe (No. 2256),and poach it. Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, and sur-round it with spinach subrics, cooked at the last moment; add</h3>
		<p>490</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>to this garnish some shavings of white truffles, barely heatedin butter, and set in a shell placed behind the fowl.</p>
		<h3 id="1509" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one lb. of mousseline forcemeat ofchicken, combined with three oz. of crayfish pur£e, and poach it.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffleessence, and surround it with the following garnish, arrangedin small heaps:—Spoon-moulded quenelles of mousseline,chicken forcemeat; white, curled, cocks’ combs; slices of rawfoie gras, stamped out with a round cutter, and tossed inbutter; small, grooved, cooked, and very white mushrooms;olive-shaped truffles, and one round quenelle decorated withtruffles at either end of the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1510" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE de LA REINE ANNE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet.</p>
		<p>When it is ready, remove the supremes and the breast bones,and fill the carcass with a garnish of macaroni and cream, com-bined with foie gras and truffle dice. Cover the macaroni withMornay sauce; glaze quickly, and dish the pullet on a low-cushion.</p>
		<p>Surround it with small tartlet crusts garnished with cocks’combs and kidneys, cohered with Allemande sauce, and set aslice of the supremes on each tartlet. Put a silver shell con-taining a pyramid of truffles behind the fowl.</p>
		<p>Serve an Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffle essence,separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1511" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE REINE MARGOT</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with two-thirds lb. of mousseline forcemeatof chicken, combined with two oz. of almond purée, and poachit.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with supreme sauce, finished with a littlealmond milk, and surround it with quenelles prepared withpistachio butter and quenelles prepared with crayfish butter,arranged alternately.</p>
		<h3 id="1512" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE REINE MARGUERITE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Remove the supremes and the breast bone, without touchingeither the wings or the legs, and set the carcass, thus trimmed,on a low cushion of bread or rice. Finely slice the supremes;add as many slices of truffle as there are collops of supremes,and combine the whole with a souffle preparation with Par-mesan, which should not be too light.</p>
		<p>491</p>
		<p>Reconstruct the pullet with this preparation; smooth thesurface, and surround the base of the pullet with a band ofpaper, so that it may keep its form. Set some thin slices ofGruy^re cheese upon it; dish it, and cook it in a moderatelyhot oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1513" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE au RIZ</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and coat it with an Allemande sauce, flavoured withchicken essence. Surround it with a garnish of rice, cookedin the pullet’s poaching-liquor, and moulded in small, buttered,timbale moulds.</p>
		<h3 id="1514" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE ROSSINI</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet.</p>
		<p>Remove the supremes; slice them, and dish them in theform of a crown upon a round dish, alternating them withcollops of foie gras, tossed in butter. Pour a very strongchicken stock finished with truffle essence in their midst.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a timbale of noodles with butter coveredwith raw noodles tossed in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1515" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE SAINTE ALLIANCE</h3>
		<p>Heat in butter ten fine truffles seasoned with salt and pepper;sprinkle them with a glassful of excellent Madeira, and leavethem to cool thus in a thoroughly sealed utensil. Now putthese truffles into a fine pullet, and poele it just in time for itto be sent to the table.</p>
		<p>When the pullet is ready, quickly cook as many ortolans,and toss in butter as many collops of foie gras as there arediners, and send them to the table at the same time as the pullet,together with the latter’s poeling-liquor, strained and in a sauce-boat.</p>
		<p>The waiter in charge should be ready for it with three assist-ants at hand, and he should have a very hot chafer on the side-board. The moment it arrives he quickly removes the supremes,cuts them into slices, and sets each one of these upon a collopof foie gras, which assistant No. 1 has placed ready on a plate,together with one of the truffles inserted into the pullet at thestart.</p>
		<p>Assistant No. 2, to whom the plate is handed forthwith, addsan ortolan and a little juice, and then assistant No. 3 straight-way places the plate before the diner.</p>
		<p>The pullet is thus served very quickly, and in such wise asto render it a dish of very exceptional gastronomical quality.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The name “Sainte Alliance” which I give to thisdish (a name that Brillat-Savarin employs in his “Physiology</p>
		<p>492</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>of Taste” in order to identify a certain famous toast) struckme as an admirable title for a preparation in which four suchveritable gems of cookery are found united—the supremcs of afine pullet, foie gras, truffles, and ortolans.</p>
		<p>This dish was originally served at the Carlton Hotel in 1905.</p>
		<h3 id="1516" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE 5ANTA-LUCIA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with truffles, prepared as for No. 1515, andbraise it in Marsala. Dish it on a low cushion, and surroundit with small tartlets of Gnochi “h la Romaine,” alternated withcollops of foie gras, tossed in butter.</p>
		<p>*5*7—POULARDE SICILIENNE</p>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Raise the fillets, leaving the wing-bones on the carcass;suppress the breast bones, and fill the resulting cavity withmacaroni, cohered with the strong liquor of braised beef “k laNapolitaine,” and combined with dice of truffles and foie gras,cocks’ combs and kidneys.</p>
		<p>Envelop the piece in pig’s caul, giving the former its naturalshape; sprinkle with raspings and melted butter, and set inthe oven that the pig’s caul may cook and colour.</p>
		<p>Dish on a low cushion, and coat with chicken glaze withbutter.</p>
		<p>Surround with tartlet crusts, each garnished with a slice ofthe supremcs, covered with a slice of foie gras tossed in butter,and surmounted by a slice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Send a chicken glaze with butter separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1518" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE SOUFFLEE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Raise the supremes, and cut them into thin slices; suppressthe breast-bones by means of scissors, and stuff the bird withone lb. two oz. of monsseline forcemeat of chicken, combinedwith one-third lb. of foie-gras purde. Spread this preparationin layers, and between each of the latter set alternate slices ofsupreme and truffle.</p>
		<p>Reconstruct the bird exactly; smooth its surface; deck itwith bits of truffle, salted tongue, and boiled white of egg;place the dish on a deep tray containing a little boiling water,the steam of which assists the poaching of the preparation, andpoach in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, coat the pullet with Allemande sauceflavoured with truffle essence.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The use of a bain-marie consisting of a deep pan</p>
		<p>493</p>
		<p>containing boiling water, wherein the dish which holds thepullet is placed, is highly recommended, but the ideal methodof poaching this sort of preparations is by means of a steamer.</p>
		<h3 id="1519" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE STANLEY</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of rice, three oz. of mush-rooms, and three oz. of a julienne of truffles. Poach it withone lb. two oz. of sliced and blanched onions, seasoned witha pinch of curry. When the pullet is ready, rub the cooking-liquor and the onions through tammy. Add one-third pint ofVelout6 and one-third pint of cream to this cullis; reduce to astiff consistence; rub once more through tammy, and finish withone-sitfth pint of cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1520" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE SOUVAROFF</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one-half lb. of foie gras and five oz. oftruffles cut into large dice, and three-parts poele it.</p>
		<p>Now put it into a cocotte with ten fair-sized truffles stewedin Madeira for a few minutes in the same saucepan as thatin which the pullet wras poeled. Moisten with one-sixth pintof veal stock; close the cocotte; seal the cover with a thread ofpaste, and complete the cooking in a moderate oven for thirtyminutes.</p>
		<p>Serve the fowl as it stands in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1521" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE SYLVANA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with one lb. of mushrooms, tossed in brownbutter, and half-brown it in the oven.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile put one pint of fresh peas into a saucepan, to-gether with ten small new onions, one small lettuce cut julienne-fashion, and a faggot consisting of parsley stalks, chervil, anda sprig of mint. Add salt, sugar, two oz. of butter, and mix thewhole up together.</p>
		<p>Moisten with two small tablespoonfuls of water; cover andhalf-cook, taking care to toss from time to time during theoperation. When the pullet is half-cooked, put it into a cocottelined w-ith a thin layer of paste, overreaching the edges of thecocotte by about two incl es.</p>
		<p>Surround it with a garnish of peas; cover it with a slice ofbacon, and close the cocotte with its cover. Draw the overlap-ping paste over the latter; seal it down with some white of egg,that it may be hermetically closed, and set in the oven for aboutforty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation as it stands in the cocotte. A sauce-boat of good chicken gravy may be served separately.</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>494</p>
		<h3 id="1522" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE TALLEYRAND</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet; raise the supremes, and cut these intolarge dice. Mix them with an equal quantity of macaroni, cutshort, and thickened with cream sauce combined with Parmesan,and add enough foie gras and truffles, cut into large dice, toequal half the weight of the supremes.</p>
		<p>Suppress the breast-bones; fill the fowl with the above pre-paration, and cover the latter with a layer of mousseline force-meat, reconstructing the bird naturally in so doing. Deck thesurface with a crown of truffle slices; cover with buttered paper,and set in the oven (1) to poach the forcemeat, (2) to thoroughlyheat the preparation beneath.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet; pour a little half-glaze sauce, flavoured withtruffle essence and combined with slices of truffle, over the dish,and serve what remains of the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1523" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE T05CA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with rice, prepared after No. 2256, and poeleit in short moistening. Dish it on a low cushion of fried bread,and surround it with a garnish of braised, tuberous fennel-roots.</p>
		<p>Send the pullet’s poeling liquor separately, after havingreduced and finished it with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1524" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE TOULOUSAINE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with Allemande sauce, flavoured with mush-room essence, and surround it with the following garnish, ar-ranged in heaps:—Quenelles of mousseline chicken forcemeat;slices of poached, veal sweetbreads; cocks’ combs and kidneys;cooked and very white button-mushroom heads, and slices oftruffle.</p>
		<p>Serve an Allemande sauce, flavoured with mushroomessence, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1525" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE TRIANON</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and surround it with quenelles of chicken force-meat, stuffed with foie-gras pur£e. Arrange these quenelles inheaps, and set a nice, whole truffle between each heap.</p>
		<p>Pierce the pullet wdth a hatelet, garnished with one groovedmushroom, one fair-sized glazed truffle, and a quenelle decoratedwith salted tongue.</p>
		<p>Serve a supreme sauce at the same time.</p>
		<p>495</p>
		<h3 id="1526" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE VALENCIENNE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it, and surround it with a garnish of rizotto, combinedwith ham dice. Set a crown of grilled slices of ham upon therizotto.</p>
		<p>Serve a well-seasoned tomated supreme sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1527" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE au VERT-PRE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet.</p>
		<p>Dish it; coat it with a supreme sauce, finished with prin-tanier butter (No. 157), in the proportion of two oz. per pintof sauce; and surround it with a garnish consisting of peas,French beans, and asparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1528" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE VICHY</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet wflth ordinary pilaff rice, and braise it white.Dish it, coat it with a supreme sauce, combined with the re-duced braising-liquor, and surround with small tartlet crusts,garnished with carrots h la Vichy.</p>
		<h3 id="1529" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE VICTORIA</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with truffles and foie gras, and three-partspoele it, exactly as directed under “Poularde Souvaroff.”</p>
		<p>Put it into a cocotte with one lb. of potatoes, cut into largedice and tossed in butter, and complete its cooking and that ofthe potatoes in the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1530" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE WASHINGTON</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with ten oz. of green maize, three-partscooked, and combined with one chopped onion cooked in butterand three oz. of good sausage-meat, fried in butter for onemoment with the onion. Braise the pullet, and glaze it at thelast minute.</p>
		<p>Serve separately and at the same time a timbale of maizewith cream.</p>
		<p>iS3»—CHAPON FIN aux PERLES DU PERIGORD</p>
		<p>Stuff the capon with fine truffles, and envelop it in verythin slices of cushion of veal. Braise it with best liqueur-brandy.</p>
		<p>Dish and serve separately (1) the braising liquor in a sauce-boat; (2) a timbale of cardoons with gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1532" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULETS SAUTES</h3>
		<p>As I pointed out at the beginning of Part V. of this chapter,the chickens best suited to the saute treatment are those termed</p>
		<p>496</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>“h la Reine”; they should be of medium size, very fleshy, andtender.</p>
		<p>In an extreme case, small pullets or large chickens might beused, but neither of these are so eminently suited to the pro-cedure in question as chickens “h la Reine.”</p>
		<p>The fowl which is to be sauted should be cut up thus: afterhaving emptied, singed, and thoroughly cleaned it; cut off itslegs—quite a simple matter, since all that is necessary is thedisjunction of the thigh-bones, after having cut the skin. Cutoff the claws just below the joint of the tibia, and pare thespurs. Now cut the tibia above the joint, and remove thethigh-bone.</p>
		<p>Cutthe pinions at the first joint; remove the wings, afterhaving cut round a portion of the breast in such wise that eachwing holds one half of it; finally detach the centrepiece orbreast-bone, which should be left whole if the fowl be smalland cut into two if it be otherwise.</p>
		<p>The carcass thus remains. Cut it into two, and trim eachpiece on both sides.</p>
		<p>Before setting them to cook, moderately season the pieces offowl with salt and pepper. Whatever the demands of a par-ticular recipe may be, the preparatory principle of sautedchickens is always as follows :—</p>
		<p>Take a sautepan just large enough to hold the pieces of fowl,and heat therein two oz. of clarified butter; or, according tocircumstances, half butter and half good oil. When the selectedfat is quite hot, insert the pieces of fowl; let them colour quickly,and turn them over from time to time, that they may do soevenly. Now cover the utensil, and put it in a sufficiently hotoven to ensure the complete cooking of the fowl. Some tenderpieces, such as the wings and the breast, should be withdrawnafter a few minutes have elapsed, and kept warm; but the legs,the meat of which is firmer and thicker, should cook seven oieight minutes more at least.</p>
		<p>When all the pieces are cooked, withdraw them; drain awaytheir butter, and swill the sautepan with the prescribed liquor,which is either some kind of wine, mushroom cooking-liquor, orchicken stock, &amp;c. This swilling forms, as I have alreadypointed out, an essential part of the procedure, inasmuch as itsobject is to dissolve those portions of solidified gravy whichadhere to the bottom of the sautepan.</p>
		<p>Reduce the swilling-liquor to half, and add thereto the saucegiven in the recipe. Put the pieces of carcass, the claws, thepinions and the legs into this sauce, and simmer for a few</p>
		<p>497</p>
		<p>minutes. The other pieces, i.e., the wings and breast, arethen added, but when the sauce is sufficiently reduced, it muststop boiling. When the pieces are completely cooked, it isobviously unnecessary for the sauce to boil, since the formerwould only be hardened thereby.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, put the pieces into a deepentree dish (fitted with a cover) in the following order:—Thepieces of carcass, the claws and the pinions on the bottom ofthe dish, upon these the legs and the breast, and, last of all, thewings.</p>
		<p>The sauce is then finished according to the directions of therecipe, and is poured over the pieces of fowl.</p>
		<p>Some chickens are prepared without colouration—that is tosay, the pieces are merely stiffened in butter without browning,and their cooking is completed in the oven as above. In thiscase the swilling-liquor is invariably white, as also the supple-mentary sauces, and the latter are finished with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1533" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE ARCHIDUC</h3>
		<p>Fry the pieces of fowl without colouration, i.e., merely stiffenthem. Add four oz. of onions, previously cooked in butter, andcomplete the cooking of the onions and the fowl together.</p>
		<p>Withdraw the pieces; dish them; cover the dish, and keep ithot. Moisten the onions with a small glassful of liqueurbrandy; reduce the latter; add thereto one-sixth pint of creamand one-sixth pint of velout6, and rub through tammy.</p>
		<p>Reduce this sauce to a stiff consistence; finish it, away fromthe fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter, the juice of thequarter of a lemon, and a tablespoonful of Madeira, and pourit over the fowl.</p>
		<p>Set about ten slices of truffle on the latter, and serve.</p>
		<h3 id="1534" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE ARLESIENNE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil, and withdraw the pieces.</p>
		<p>Swill with one-quarter pint of white wine; add a piece ofcrushed garlic as large as a pea, one-sixth pint of tomated half-glaze sauce, and reduce by a third. Dish the chicken, andsurround with alternate heaps of onion and egg-plant roundels,seasoned, dredged, and fried in oil, and concassed tomatoescooked in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1535" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE ARMAGNAC</h3>
		<p>Cook the pieces of chicken in butter without colouration; addthereto three and one-half oz. of raw slices of truffle, and dishin a shallow cocotte.</p>
		<p>Swill with a small glassful of old liqueur brandy; add a few</p>
		<p>K K</p>
		<p>498 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>drops of lemon juice and one-sixth pint of cream; heat; finishthis sauce, away from the fire, with two oz. of crayfish butter,and pour it over the fowl.</p>
		<p>Serve in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1536" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE D’ARTOIS</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, and dish the pieces.</p>
		<p>Swill with three tablespoonfuls of Madeira, and add one-seventh pint of light, pale meat glaze, four small quarteredartichoke-bottoms, tossed in butter, ten carrots shaped likeolives, cooked in consommd and glazed, and eight small onionscooked in butter.</p>
		<p>Finish with one and one-half oz. of butter and a pinch ofchopped chives, and pour this sauce over the pieces of fowl.</p>
		<h3 id="1537" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE BEAULIEU</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, and add to it five oz. of newpotatoes (the size of hazel-nuts) and the same quantity ofsmall quartered artichoke-bottoms, cooked in butter beforehandwith the potatoes.</p>
		<p>Keep the whole in the oven, under cover, for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Set the pieces of fowl, the potatoes and the artichoke-bottoms in an earthenware saucepan, and add twelve blackolives.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of white wineand a little lemon juice; complete with a tablespoonful of vealstock, and pour into the cocotte.</p>
		<p>Simmer for five minutes, in the utensil, and serve the pre-paration as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1538" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE BORDELAISE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, and dish it. Surround it withsmall quartered artichoke-bottoms stewed in butter; slicedpotatoes cooked in butter, and roundels of fried onions, arrangedin small heaps, with a small tuft of fried parsley between eachheap.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of chickengravy, and sprinkle the fowl with the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="1539" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE BOIVIN</h3>
		<p>Fry the chicken in butter and add twelve small onions; threequartered artichokes, small and very tender; twenty-four smallpotatoes of the size of hazel-nuts. Cover and cook the wholetogether, in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken with the onions and potatoes over it, andsurround it with the artichokes.</p>
		<p>499</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with two tablespoonfuls of consommd;add three tablespoonfuls of pale glaze, a few drops of lemonjuice, and one and one-half oz. of butter; and pour this sauceover the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1540" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE BRETONNEStiffen the pieces without colouring them, and add theretothree oz. of the white of a leek and the half of an onion,both sliced and stewed in butter beforehand. Cover and set inthe oven.</h3>
		<p>About five minutes before the fowl is quite cooked, addthree oz. of mushrooms, minced raw and tossed in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish the pullet, add one-sixth pint of supreme sauce andas much cream to the vegetables; reduce to half, and pour thesauce and the vegetables over the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1541" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUT6 aux cEpesSautS the chicken in oil. When it is cooked, drain away</h3>
		<p>the oil, dish it; heat three chopped shallots in the sautdpan;swill with one-quarter pint of white wine; reduce, and completewith one and one-half oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Pour this sauce over the chicken, and surround the latterwith eight oz. of cepes, sauted k la Bordelaise.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1542" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTls CHAMPEAUXSaute the chicken in butter; dish it, and surround it with</h3>
		<p>small onions and potatoes (the size of hazel-nuts), both cookedin butter beforehand. Swill with a little white wine; add one-sixth pint of veal gravy and one tablespoonful of meat glaze;reduce; finish with one and one-half oz. of butter; and pour thissauce over the chicken.</p>
		<p>*543—POULET SAUTE CHASSEURSaute the chicken in equal quantities of butter and oil, anddish it. Swill the saucepan with a few tablespoonfuls of whitewine, and reduce; add one-quarter pint of Chasseur SauceEscoffier; heat; pour over the chicken, and sprinkle the latterwith a pinch of concassed parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1544" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE CYNTHIASauti the chicken in butter and dish it.</h3>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with a glass of dry champagne; reduceto half; add one tablespoonful of light poultry glaze; finishwith two and one-half oz. of butter, the juice of half a lemon,and one tablespoonful of dry Curasao; pour this sauce overthe chicken.</p>
		<p>K K 2</p>
		<p>500</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Surround the latter with three oz. of grapes, cleared of allskin and pips, and ten sections of an orange, peeled in suchwisethat the pulp of the fruit is raw.</p>
		<h3 id="1545" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE DEMIDOFF</h3>
		<p>Colour the chicken in butter; add the vegetable garnish givenfor “Poularde &amp; la Demidoff” (1464), and put the two to stewin the oven. About ten minutes before the cooking is com-pleted, add two oz. of truffles, cut to the shape of crescents likethe carrots and turnips, and three tablespoonfuls of good vealstock.</p>
		<p>Dish the pieces of chicken, and cover them with the garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1546" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE à la DORIA</h3>
		<p>Colour the pieces of chicken in oil and butter; add theretoone-half lb. of cucumber cut to the shape of garlic cloves; andcomplete the cooking by stewing in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken with the cucumber upon it. Swill thesaucepan with one tablespoonful of veal gravy and a few dropsof lemon juice; and sprinkle the chicken and its garnish withthis swilling-liquor, to which add one and one-half oz. of brownbutter.</p>
		<h3 id="1547" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE à la DURAND</h3>
		<p>Dredge the seasoned pieces of chicken, and toss them in oil.Dish them in the form of a crown; garnish their midst witha fine heap of roundels of fried onion; and, in the centre ofthe latter, set a cone, made from a very thin slice of ham andfilled with concassed tomatoes cooked in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1548" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE à l’EGYPTIENNE</h3>
		<p>Colour the pieces of chicken in oil. Toss in oil,together, three oz. of onion, and two oz. of mushrooms, sliced;and six oz. of raw ham, cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Set the pieces of chicken in a cocotte, alternating them withthe garnish, which should have been well-drained; cover withtwo tomatoes, cut into thick slices; cover the cocotte, and com-plete the cooking in the oven for twenty minutes.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, sprinkle with a tablespoonful of vealstock.</p>
		<p>i54Sr~POULET SAUTE à l’ESPAGNOLE</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil. Drain the latter away, and addone-half lb. of pilaff rice, combined with one and one-half oz.of capsicums in dice; three oz. of large green peas, cooked dI’anglaise, and two sliced and poached sausages.</p>
		<p>Soi</p>
		<p>Cover the saut^pan, and set the whole to stew in the ovenfor ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken; cover it with the garnish, and surroundit with six small grilled tomatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="1550" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE à l’ESTRAGON</h3>
		<p>Toss the chicken in butter, and dish it.</p>
		<p>Swill the saut^pan with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduceto half; add one-sixth pint of gravy in which tarragon has beeninfused, and thicken with arrowroot.</p>
		<p>Pour this sauce over the chicken, and decorate its wingswith sprays of parboiled tarragon leaves.</p>
		<p>*551— POULET SAUTE FEDORA</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, with fouroz. of raw, sliced truffles; and dish.</p>
		<p>Swill with one-sixth pint of cream; add three tablespoonfulsof Bechamel sauce, and reduce to half. Finish, away from thefire, with one and one-half oz. of crayfish butter, a few dropsof lemon juice, and a little cayenne; add four oz. of parboiledasparagus-heads to this sauce, and pour it over the chicken.Or, after having cohered them with butter, the asparagus-headsmay be arranged in heaps round the fowl.</p>
		<h3 id="1552" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE au FENOU1L</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration; swill withcream; add three quartered tuberose fennels, trimmed to theshape of garlic cloves and parboiled, and complete the cookingof the fennels and the chicken, together.</p>
		<p>Set the pieces of fennel in the form of a crown on a specialearthenwarg dish, and put the chicken in their midst, placing thepieces side by side. Coat with Mornay sauce, flavoured withchicken essence, and set to glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1553" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE à la FERMlfcRE</h3>
		<p>Slice three oz. of the red part of a carrot, the same quantityof turnip, two oz. of celery, and half an onion. Season witha little salt and sugar, and half-stew in butter.</p>
		<p>Brown the pieces of chicken in butter; put them in thecocotte with the garnish of vegetables; add thereto two and one-half oz. of ham cut into dice, and complete the cooking of boththe chicken and the vegetables, in the oven.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, sprinkle with four or five tablespoon-fuls of veal stock.</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>502</p>
		<p>*554—POULET SAUTE aux FINES HERBES</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, and two minutes before dishingit, sprinkle it with one-half oz. of chopped shallots. Swill thesaut^pan with one-sixth pint of white wine; reduce; add threetablespoonfuls of strong, veal gravy and as much half-glazesauce; and finish the sauce, away from the fire, with one andone-half oz. of butter and a coffeespoonful of chopped parsley,chervil, and tarragon. Pour it over the chicken.</p>
		<p>*555—POULET SAUTE FORESTIERE</p>
		<p>Sautd the chicken in butter; sprinkle it with a table-spoonful of chopped shallots; add five oz. of quartered morels;stew in the oven for ten minutes, and dish the chicken.</p>
		<p>Swill with white wine; add one-sixth pint of veal stock;reduce, and pour over the chicken with the morels. Surroundwith four small heaps of potatoes, cut into large dice and tossedin butter; put a rectangle of frizzled bacon between each heap,and sprinkle a pinch of chopped parsley over the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1556" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE QABRIELLE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, and dish it.Swill with one-eighth pint of mushroom cooking-liquor; addthree tablespoonfuls of Bdchamel sauce, and three tablespoonfulsof cream; reduce, and finish the sauce, away from the fire, withone and one-half oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Pour this sauce over the chicken; sprinkle on it some veryblack truffle, cut julienne-fashion, and surround it with littleleaves of puff-paste, baked white.</p>
		<p>*557—POULET SAUT^ GEORGINA</p>
		<p>Saute the pullet in butter with twelve small new onions anda small faggot, containing a sprig of fennel. Dish the chicken.</p>
		<p>Swill with three tablespoonfuls of mushroom cooking-liquorand as much Rhine wine; add one-fifth pint of cream; twelvemushroom-heads, sliced; and reduce the cream to half.</p>
		<p>Complete with a pinch of chopped chervil and tarragon, andpour over the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1558" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE! HONGROISE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a sufficient quantity of pilaff rice, combined withconcassed tomatoes, to make a border.</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter, without colouration, with achopped half-onion and a little paprika. When the onion isslightly coloured, add three peeled and quartered tomatoes, and</p>
		<p>5°3</p>
		<p>complete the cooking of the whole. Mould the rice to form aborder, and set the chicken in the middle.</p>
		<p>Add one-sixth pint of cream to the tomatoes; reduce to half;rub through tammy; heat this sauce, and pour it over thechicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1559" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUT6 à l’INDIENNEOU CURRIE de POULET</h3>
		<p>Cut the chicken into small pieces, and fry them in oil witha sliced onion and a large pinch of curry. Swill with one-sixthpint of cocoanut milk or, failing this, almond milk; add one-third pint of velout6, and complete the cooking of the chickenwhile reducing the sauce to half. Set in a deep dish, and servea timbale of rice k l’lndienne separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1560" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE JAPONAISE</h3>
		<p>Fry the chicken in butter; add one lb. of cleaned and par-boiled stachys and complete the cooking of the whole, chickenand stachys, in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken with the stachys upon it. Swill with one-sixth pint of slightly thickened veal stock; complete, away fromthe fire, with one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour this overthe chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1561" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE JURASSIENNE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter and, when it is ready, add toit one-half lb. of blanched breast of fresh pork, cut into stripsand well fried in butter. Drain away three-quarters of thechicken’s grease; swill with one-sixth pint of light half-glazesauce, and dish the chicken.</p>
		<p>Complete the sauce with a pinch of chopped chives, andpour it over the chicken with the strips of bacon.</p>
		<h3 id="1562" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE LATHUILE</h3>
		<p>Heat three oz. of butter in a saut^pan, just large enough tohold the chicken and its garnish. Set the pieces of chicken inthis butter, together with one-half lb. of potatoes and five oz.of raw artichoke-bottoms, both cut into fair-sized dice.</p>
		<p>When the chicken and the vegetables are coloured under-neath, turn the whole over at one stroke and complete thecooking on the other side; sprinkle the chicken with threetablespoonfuls of meat glaze and a pinch of chopped parsleycontaining a mite of crushed garlic, and set the chicken and thegarnish on a dish, after the manner of “Pommes Anna.”</p>
		<p>Pour two and one-half oz. of nut-brown butter over thewhole, and surround with roundels of seasoned onions, dredged</p>
		<p>5°4</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>and fried in oil, and very green, fried parsley, arranged in alter-nate heaps.</p>
		<h3 id="1563" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE LYONNAISE</h3>
		<p>Saut6 the chicken in butter and, when it is half-cooked, addthree fair-sized onions, finely sliced, tossed in butter and slightlycoloured.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the chicken and the onions together,and dish the former. Swill with one-sixth pint of veal gravy;reduce; pour this liquor and the onions over the chicken, andsprinkle the whole with a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1564" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE MARENGO</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil. Swill the sautdpan with white wine;add two peeled and concassed tomatoes, or one and one-halftablespoonfuls of tomato pur£e, a mite of crushed garlic, tensmall mushrooms, and ten slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken; cover it with sauce and garnish; surroundit with heart-shaped croutons, fried in butter; small, fried eggs,and trussed crayfish cooked in court-bouillon, and sprinkle thewhole with a pinch of concassed parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1565" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUT6 MARYLAND</h3>
		<p>Season the pieces of chicken; dip them in butter; roll themin bread-crumbs, and cook them in clarified butter. Dish,placing a slice of grilled bacon between each piece of chicken;surround with small, fried galettes of maize flour, and friedslices of banana.</p>
		<p>Serve a horse-radish sauce with cream, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1566" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE MARSEILLAISE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil, and, when it is half-cooked, addthereto two crushed cloves of garlic; three oz. of ciseled, greencapsicums, and the same weight of quartered tomatoes—all threetossed in oil.</p>
		<p>When the chicken is cooked, drain away the oil; swill thepan with one-sixth pint of white wine and a few drops of lemonjuice, and reduce almost entirely.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken; cover it with the garnish, and sprinklewith a pinch of concassed parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1567" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE MEXICAINE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil; swill the saut^pan with a fewtablespoonfuls of white wine; reduce, and add one-sixth pintof tomat^d veal gravy.</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>505</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken; pour the sauce over it, and surround itwith grilled capsicums and mushrooms, garnished with con-cassed tomatoes cooked in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1568" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUT^ M1REILLE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil and add to it, when half-cooked,one chopped onion, four concassed tomatoes, and one pimentocut into dice. Ten minutes before serving, flavour with a smallpiece of crushed garlic.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken; pour the juice of the tomatoes into thesaut^pan; reduce to half, and strain over the chicken.</p>
		<p>Serve a timbale of rice, flavoured with saffron, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1569" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE aux MORILLES</h3>
		<p>Colour the chicken in butter and three-parts cook it; addto it two-thirds lb. of morels, stewed in butter, and completethe cooking of the chicken, under cover, in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish the chicken with the morels upon it; swill the saut^panwith a tablespoonful of brandy; add thereto the juice of themorels, two tablespoonfuls of meat glaze, and one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour this sauce over the chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1570" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE NORMANDE</h3>
		<p>Half-sautt the chicken in butter, and set the pieces in acocotte with one lb. of peeled and sliced russet apples. Swillwith a small glassful of liqueur cider; put this liquor in thecocotte; cover, and set in the oven, that the chicken may becompletely cooked and the apples as well.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation, as it stands, in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1571" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE PARMENTIER</h3>
		<p>Brown the chicken in butter, and add one lb. of potatoes,raised by means of an oval spoon-cutter, or cut into large dice,and already slightly frizzled in butter.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking in the oven, and dish the chicken withthe potatoes arranged in heaps all round. Swill with a fewtablespoonfuls of white wine; add to it a tablespoonful of vealgravy; pour this over the chicken, and sprinkle the latter witha pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1572" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET SAUTE PIEMONTAISE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter and dish it.</p>
		<p>Swill with a few tablespoonfuls of white wine; add thereto atablespoonful of melted pale meat glaze, and pour this overthe chicken. Sprinkle it at the last moment with two oz. of</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>506</p>
		<p>nut-brown butter, and finally with chopped parsley, and servea timbale of rizotto with white truffles separately.</p>
		<p>•573—POULET SAUTE PORTUGAISE</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter and oil, and dish it. Drain awaya portion of the butter used in the cooking, add to the remaindera mite of crushed garlic and a chopped half-onion; and, whenthe latter is fried, add four oz. of peeled and concassed tomatoes,two oz. of sliced mushrooms, a few drops of white wine, anda pinch of concassed parsley.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the whole, taking care to reduceall moisture.</p>
		<p>Cover the chicken with its garnish, and surround it with half-tomatoes or tomatoes stuffed with rice.</p>
		<h3 id="1574" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTfi PROVEN^ALE</h3>
		<p>Saute the chicken in oil and dish it. Swill with white wineand add thereto a mite of crushed garlic, three oz. of con-cassed tomatoes, four anchovy fillets cut into dice, twelve blackolives stoned and parboiled, and a pinch of chopped sweet basil.</p>
		<p>Leave the whole to simmer for five minutes, and cover thechicken with it.</p>
		<h3 id="1575" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE STANLEY</h3>
		<p>Colour the chicken in butter, and complete its cooking undercover with one-half lb. of minced onions. Dish it in a fiat,earthenware cocotte, setting a heap of mushrooms on either sideof it; add one-third pint of cream to the onions; simmer forten minutes; rub through tammy, and reduce.</p>
		<p>Finish this sauce with one oz. of butter, a little curry, andpour it over the chicken.</p>
		<p>Set ten slices of truffle on the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="1576" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE aux TRUFFES</h3>
		<p>Half-saute the chicken in butter; add six oz. of rawtruffles, cut into slices, and complete the cooking under cover.Dish; swill with a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira; reduce; addthree tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce; finish with one andone-half oz. of butter, and pour this sauce over the chicken.</p>
		<p>•577—POULET SAUT^ VAN DYCK</p>
		<p>Cook the chicken in butter without letting it brown; swillwith one-sixth pint of cream; add one-sixth pint of supremesauce, and reduce by a third.</p>
		<p>Mix one-half lb. of young parboiled hop-sprouts to the</p>
		<p>POULTRY 507</p>
		<p>sauce; simmer for two minutes, and pour over the chicken, whichshould be dished in a cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1578" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE VICHY</h3>
		<p>Colour the chicken in butter; add one-half lb. of half-cookedcarrots a la Vichy (No. 2061) to it, and complete the cookingof the chicken and the carrots under cover in the oven.</p>
		<p>Swill with a few tablespoonfuls of veal stock; dish thepullet, and cover it with the garnish of carrots.</p>
		<h3 id="1579" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET SAUTE VERDI</h3>
		<p>Prepare a border of rizotto k la Piemontaise.</p>
		<p>Saute the chicken in butter; set it in the centre of theborder, and on the latter arrange a crown of slices of foie gras,tossed in butter, alternated with slices of truffle, resting againstthe chicken.</p>
		<p>Swill with Asti wine; reduce; add three tablespoonfuls ofveal stock and one and one-half oz. of butter, and pour thissauce over the pieces of chicken.</p>
		<h3 id="1580" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FILETS. 1581—SUPREMES. 1582—COTELETTES</h3>
		<h3 id="1583" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—AILERONS of CHICKEN</h3>
		<p>The terms “Fillet” and “Supreme” are synonymous, andeither one or the other may be used for variety to expressthe same thing on a menu. They are names given to thebreast of the fowl, divided into two along the sternum, andcleared of all skin. Each fillet or supreme comprises the largeand the minion fillets.</p>
		<p>When suprernes are taken from a small chicken, the minionfillets are not removed; if the chicken be an ordinary one ora pullet, the minion fillets are removed, cleared of all tendons,and twisted into rings or crescents, after having been contisedwith slices of truffle that are half-inserted into the little incisions,made at regular intervals in the meat with the point of a knife.</p>
		<p>Prepared in this way, these fillets are generally included inthe garnish of the supremes. Chicken ailerons and cutlets(the latter must not be mistaken for those prepared from cookedmeat and which are only a kind of croquette) are supremes towhich the humerus-bone of the wing is left adhering.</p>
		<p>Cutlets are always cut from such fowls as chickens k laReine, or very fleshy, spring chickens. The same rule appliesto supremes: though, sometimes, the latter are cut from pullets.But, in that case, as they would be too large, they are cut intothree or four very regular pieces, which are slightly flattened,and trimmed to the shape of hearts or ovals; except when theyhave to be stuffed.</p>
		<p>508</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>In the latter case, they are opened in the thickness, by meansof the point of a small knife, to form sacks; and, in theresulting interstice the selected stuffing is inserted, with thehelp of a piping-bag fitted with a little, even pipe, and in asufficient quantity to fill out the supremes well.</p>
		<p>Supremes and cutlets are always cooked without liquor, oralmost so; for should any moistening liquid even approach theboil, it would immediately harden them. If they be desiredpoached, it would be best to cook the whole fowl, and cut themfrom the latter when it is cooked.</p>
		<p>This is how they are prepared, according as to whether theybe required colourless or sauted; though the brown method ofpreparing them is applied more particularly to cutlets.</p>
		<p>Cutlets or supremes sauted: Season them with salt; rollthem in flour; set them in a vegetable pan containing some veryhot clarified butter, and quickly gild them on both sides. Thesepieces of fowl are so tender that they are cooked and gilded atthe same moment of time.</p>
		<p>Cutlets or supremes prepared without colouration: Seasonthem, and set them in a vegetable-pan, containing some fresh,melted, unclarified butter. Roll the supremes in this butter;add a few drops of lemon juice; thoroughly seal the vegetable-pan, and put it in a very hot oven.</p>
		<p>A few minutes suffice for the poaching of the supremes,which are known to be ready when they seem resilient to thetouch, and are perfectly white.</p>
		<p>Important Remarks: Chicken Supremes or cutlets shouldnever be allowed to wait, lest they harden. They should becooked quickly, at the last moment; dished and served imme-diately. The shortest wait is enough to spoil them, and to makean insipid and dry preparation of what should be an exquisitedish.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The recipes given hereafter for supremes may ofcourse be applied to fillets, cutlets, ailerons, blanc de poulet,&amp;c.</p>
		<h3 id="1584" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE AGNES SOREL</h3>
		<p>Line some oval buttered tartlet-moulds with mousselineforcemeat. Upon the latter, put some raw, sliced mushrooms,tossed in butter; cover with forcemeat so as to fill the mould,and poach in the bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Turn out in a circle on a round dish; put a poached supremeon each tartlet; coat with Allemande sauce; deck with a trufflegirt by a ring of very red tongue, and surround the supremewith a thread of pale, meat glaze.</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>5° 9</p>
		<h3 id="1585" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE ALEXANDRA</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes dry. Dish them with a few slices oftruffle set upon them; coat them with Mornay sauce, flavouredwith chicken essence, and glaze quickly. Surround with smallheaps of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1586" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE AMBASSADRICE</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes dry. Dish them; coat them withsupreme sauce, and surround them with lamb sweetbreads,studded with truffles and cooked without colouration, alternatedwith faggots of asparagus-heads.</p>
		<h3 id="1587" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE ARLESIENNE</h3>
		<p>Season and dredge the supremes, and toss them in clarifiedbutter.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, fry in oil some egg-plant roundels and someseasoned and dredged roundels of onion. Also prepare agarnish of tomatoes tossed in oil. Dish the egg-plant roundelsin a circle on a round dish; set the supremes thereon, and gar-nish the latter with the tossed tomatoes and the fried onions,set in small heaps upon them.</p>
		<p>Serve a delicate, tomat^d half-glaze sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1588" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE BOISTELLE</h3>
		<p>Cut the supremes into heart shapes, and stuff them withmousseline forcemeat combined with half its bulk of mashed rawmushrooms.</p>
		<p>Put the supremes in a buttered vegetable-pan, with two-thirdslb. of peeled, minced, raw mushrooms; season with salt, whitepepper and lemon juice, and set to poach slowly in a moderateoven.</p>
		<p>Dish in the form of a crown, in a timbale, with the mush-rooms in the centre.</p>
		<p>Add to the liquor, which should only consist of the moistureof the mushrooms, two and one-half oz. of butter and a fewdrops of lemon juice; pour this sauce over the supremes, andcomplete with a pinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="1589" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREME5 de VOLAILLE AUXCHAMPIGNONS, A BLANC</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes in a little mushroom cooking-liquor.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, with some fine very whitecooked mushroom-heads. Coat them moderately with Alle-mande sauce, combined with the cooking-liquor of thesupremes.</p>
		<p>Serve what remains of the sauce separately.</p>
		<p>5io</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1590" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE AUXCHAMPIGNONS, A BRUN</h3>
		<p>Cook the supremes in clarified butter, as already described.Dish them; surround them with mushrooms, minced raw andtossed in butter, and coat them with a light mushroom sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1591" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE CHIMAYCook the supremes in clarified butter.</h3>
		<p>Dish them; garnish them with tossed morels and asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, and surround with a thread of goodthickened gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1592" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE CUSSY</h3>
		<p>Collop the supremes; slightly flatten each collop; trim themround, dredge them, and toss them in butter.</p>
		<p>Set each collop of supreme upon an artichoke-bottom aboutequal in size to the former; put a thick slice of glazed truffleon each collop, and a very white cock’s kidney upon eachslice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Serve a thickened gravy separately.</p>
		<p>I593_SUPR£mES de VOLAILLE DORIA</p>
		<p>Season and dredge the supremes, and toss them quickly inclarified butter. Dish them and surround them with piecesof cucumber, shaped like garlic cloves and cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, sprinkle them with a little nut-brownbutter, and a few drops of lemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="1594" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE DREUX</h3>
		<p>Make some incisions, at short intervals, in the supremes,and half-insert into these, alternate roundels of truffle and saltedtongue. Poach them dry. Dish; surround with a garnish ofcocks’ combs and kidneys, and slices of truffle, and pour amoderate quantity of Allemande sauce over this garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1595" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE ECARLATE</h3>
		<p>Incise the supremes as above; but garnish them only withroundels of tongue. Poach them dry, and set them on oval,flat quenelles of mousseline forcemeat, sprinkled with very redchopped tongue.</p>
		<p>Coat with clear supreme sauce, that the red of the tonguemay be seen.</p>
		<h3 id="1596" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREiMES de VOLAILLE ECOSSAISE</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes.</p>
		<p>Dish them; coat them with Ecossaise sauce, and surroundthem with small heaps of French beans, cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>POULTRY 511</p>
		<p>*597—SUPR&amp;MES de VOLAILLE FAVORITE</p>
		<p>Saute the supremes in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a crown, on tossed slices of foie gras, withthree slices of truffle on each supreme.</p>
		<p>In their midst set a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered withbutter, and serve, separately, a sauceboat of light meat-glaze,buttered.</p>
		<h3 id="1598" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE FINANClfeRE</h3>
		<p>Saute the supremes in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, upon fried croutons ofthe same size; in their midst arrange a garnish k la financi&amp;re(No. 1474), and coat the supremes and their garnish withfinanci&amp;re sauce.</p>
		<p>*599—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE aux FONDS</p>
		<p>D’ARTICHAUTS</p>
		<p>Saute the supremes in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish them with a garnish of raw artichoke-bottoms, sliced,tossed in butter, and sprinkled with fine herbs. Sprinkle afew drops of nut-brown butter over the supremes, and serve athickened gravy separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1600" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE GEORGETTE</h3>
		<p>Prepare ■ as many “pommes Georgette” as there aresupremes, and take care to choose potatoes of the same size asthe supremes.</p>
		<p>Poach the supremes. Set one on each potato, with a fineslice of truffle in the middle, and arrange in the form of a crownon a round dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1601" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE HENRI IV.</h3>
		<p>Collop the supremes; slightly flatten the collops, and trimthem round. Season and dredge them; saute them in clarifiedbutter, and set each collop on an artichoke bottom, slightlygarnished with buttered meat-glaze.</p>
		<p>Serve a B^arnaise sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1602" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE HONGROISE</h3>
		<p>Prepare some pilaff rice, combined with concassed tomatoes,and dish it in a shallow timbale.</p>
		<p>Season the supremes with Paprika; toss them in clarifiedbutter, and set them in a timbale, upon the pilaff rice.</p>
		<p>Swill the vegetable-pan with a few tablespoonfuls of cream;add the necessary quantity of Hongroise sauce, and coat thesupremes with this sauce.</p>
		<p>512</p>
		<h3 id="1603" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE à l’INDIENNE</h3>
		<p>Saute the supremes in butter, and put them for a fewminutes in a curry sauce &amp; l’lndienne, but without letting thelatter boil.</p>
		<p>Dish the supremes in a timbale with the curry sauce.</p>
		<p>Serve a timbale of rice k l’lndienne, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1604" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE JARDINIERE</h3>
		<p>Saute the supremes in butter. Dish and surround with smallheaps of vegetables, arranged very neatly, as explained in thecase of the Jardiniere garnish.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the supremes with a few drops of nut-brownbutter, just before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="1605" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE JUDIC</h3>
		<p>Cut the supremes into heart shapes; season them, and poachthem dry.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a crown, upon little braised lettuces; and seta slice of truffle and a cock’s kidney upon each heart of supreme.Coat slightly with thickened gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1606" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE MARECHALE</h3>
		<p>It is the rule that all preparations termed “k la Mar^chale”should be treated with chopped truffle; that is to say that thelatter takes the place of the customary bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>For the sake of economy the a Vanglaise treatment (i.e., eggand bread-crumbs) is more commonly applied; so the readermay choose which of the two he prefers. In any case, sautethe supremes in butter; dish them in the form of a crown, witha fine slice of truffle on each, and set in their midst a garnishof asparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Formerly, these supremes, like all preparations “kla Mar^chale,” were gently grilled upon buttered paper.</p>
		<h3 id="1607" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE MARYLAND</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as directed under “Poulet saut6 &amp; la Mary-land” (No. 1565).</p>
		<h3 id="1608" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE M0NTPEN5IER</h3>
		<p>Roll the supremes in beaten egg and bread-crumbs, andsaute them in clarified butter. Dish them in a crown with aslice of truffle upon each, and surround with small heaps ofasparagus-heads, cohered with butter.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the supremes with a few drops of nut-brown butter.</p>
		<p>513</p>
		<h3 id="1609" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLA1LLE ORLY</h3>
		<p>Take some supremes of chicken &amp; la Reine, and set themon a dish with parsley stalks and finely sliced onions; sprinklewith a little oil and lemon juice, and set to marinade for anhour.</p>
		<p>When about to prepare them, dry them by means of a pieceof linen; dip them into light batter, and put them in a veryhot frying fat that they may cook quickly.</p>
		<p>Drain; dish on a napkin with bunches or a border of verygreen fried parsley, and serve a tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1610" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE à l’ORIENTALE</h3>
		<p>Saute the supremes in butter, and dish them each upon athick slice of chow-chow, cut to the same shape, parboiled, andstewed in butter beforehand. Coat with Supreme sauce, com-bined with a quarter of its bulk of tomato pur£e, and flavouredmoderately with saffron.</p>
		<h3 id="1611" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE EN PAPILLOTE</h3>
		<p>Cut out as many heart-shaped pieces of kitchen paper asthere are supremes, and either butter or oil them.</p>
		<p>Quickly stiffen the supremes in butter. In the centre of eachpaper heart, set a slice of ham cut to the shape of a triangle;cover the ham with a tablespoonful of reduced Italienne sauce;set the supremes on the sauce, and cover it with the same sauceand another triangle of ham. Close the pieces of paper, andpleat their edges in such wise as to entirely enclose their con-tents; set the papillotes, thus prepared, on a tray; and put themin a sufficiently hot oven to allow of completing the cooking ofthe supremes and blowing out the papillotes.</p>
		<h3 id="1612" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE au PARMESAN</h3>
		<p>Season the supremes; dip them in beaten egg and roll them</p>
		<p>in grated Parmesan. Saute them in butter, and dish them oncroutons of polenta (No. 2294), shaped somewhat like thesupremes and browned in clarified butter. When about toserve, sprinkle the supremes with nut-brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1613" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE à la POLIGNAC</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes dry, and dish them.</p>
		<p>Coat them with Supreme sauce, combined with a julienne oftruffles and mushrooms.</p>
		<h3 id="1614" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE à la POJARSKI</h3>
		<p>Mince the supremes, and, in so doing, combine with them,</p>
		<p>firstt the quarter of their weight of bread-crumbs dipped in milk</p>
		<p>L L</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>5H</p>
		<p>and well squeezed, and the same weight of fresh butter; andthen an equal quantity of fresh cream, which should be addedlittle by little. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Divide up this preparation into portions equal in size to thesupremes, and shape them exactly like the latter; in short,reconstruct the supremes exactly with this mince-meat.</p>
		<p>Dredge; cook in clarified butter, and serve as soon asready.</p>
		<p>There is no hard and fast rule for the garnishing of thesesupremes; the garnish is therefore optional.</p>
		<h3 id="1615" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Cut the supremes into heart shapes; flatten them slightly,and poach them. Set each supreme on a quenelle of chickenforcemeat, prepared with crayfish butter, and dish in the formof a crown. Coat with Allemande sauce, flavoured with truffleessence, and, on each supreme, set an olive-shaped truffle anda cock’s kidney—the two separated by a cock’s comb.</p>
		<h3 id="1616" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE RICHELIEU</h3>
		<p>Treat the supremes a I’anglaise, and cook them in clarifiedbutter.</p>
		<p>Dish them; coat them with half-melted butter h la Maitred’hdtel, and set four fine slices of truffle on each supreme.</p>
		<h3 id="1617" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE ROSSINI</h3>
		<p>Sautd the supremes in butter, and dish them on collopsof foie gras, arranged in the form of a crown and also tossedin butter. Coat with a stfong Madeira sauce, combined withslices of truffle.</p>
		<h3 id="1618" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE TALLEYRAND</h3>
		<p>Prepare :—(1) a croustade of lining paste, of a size in propor-tion to the garnish to be put inside it, just as the garnishshould be in proportion to the number of supremes:—(2) agarnish of macaroni with cream, combined with three oz. of foiegras and three oz. of truffles in dice, per one-half lb. ofmacaroni.</p>
		<p>Cut the suprimes to the shape of hearts; stuff them withgodiveau with cream (No. 198), mixed with half its bulk of apur£e of foie gras, and poach them dry.</p>
		<p>Put the macaroni in the croustade, shaping it like a domein so doing; coat the supremes with Allemande sauce, and setthem in a crown on the timbale and round the dome ofmacaroni.</p>
		<p>Send a sauceboat of velout£ to the table separately.</p>
		<p>SlS</p>
		<h3 id="1619" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE VALEN^AY</h3>
		<p>Stuff the supremes with truffles, cut into small dice andcohered with very reduced Allemande sauce. Treat them &amp;I’anglaise and cook them in butter.</p>
		<p>Prepare some fried croutons, shaped like cocks’ combs, inthe proportion of two for each supreme; cover these with adome of fine truffled forcemeat, and put them in a moderate oventhat the forcemeat may poach.</p>
		<p>Dish the supremes in the form of a crown; surround themwith the crofitons; and, in their midst, pour a pur£e of mush-rooms.</p>
		<h3 id="1620" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de VOLAILLE à la VALOIS</h3>
		<p>Treat the supremes a I’anglaise, and cook them in clarifiedbutter.</p>
		<p>Dish them with a garnish of small, stoned olives, stuffedand poached at the last moment.</p>
		<p>Serve a Valois sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1621" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE VERNEUIL</h3>
		<p>Marinade the supremes as for No. 1609; treat them d.</p>
		<p>Vanglaise, and cook them in clarified butter. Dish them inthe form of a crown, and coat them with Colbert sauce.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a pur£e of artichokes, combined with finely-minced truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1622" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de VOLAILLE VILLEROY</h3>
		<p>Poach the supremes without completely cooking them.</p>
		<p>Dip them in a Villeroy sauce, in such wise that they may bewell coated with it. Leave them to cool; treat them a Vanglaise ;and, a few minutes before serving, put them in some very hotfrying fat. Dish them in the form of a crown, and serve aP^rigueux sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1623" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BLANC de POULET ELISABETH</h3>
		<p>Raise the supremes of two small chickens; poach them inbutter and lemon juice, and coat them with Supreme sauce.</p>
		<p>Dish them around a low, very cold cushion of bread, placedon the dish at the last moment. Upon the cushion, quickly set a dozen shelled oysters, which should have been kept in icefor at least two hours before dishing.</p>
		<p>Serve very quickly in order that the supremes may be veryhot and the oysters very cold. Send a Supreme sauce sepa-rately.</p>
		<p>L l 2</p>
		<p>516</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1624" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TURBAN de FILETS de POULET</h3>
		<p>Take the required number of fillets, which is determinedby the size of the mould to be used. Flatten these fillets outsomewhat thinly, and trim them neatly on both sides.</p>
		<p>With these fillets, line a buttered savarin-mould; setting arow of thin slices of truffle between each of the fillets, andallowing the latter to hang over the edge of the mould. Overthe fillets spread a layer of mousseline forcemeat, two-thirds in.thick.</p>
		<p>Three-parts fill the remaining space with a large tongue,truffles and mushrooms salpicon, cohered by means of a reducedAllemande sauce.</p>
		<p>Cover this salpicon with forcemeat, so as to fill the mould,and then draw the overlapping ends of the fillets across theforcemeat.</p>
		<p>Set to poach in the bain-marie for about forty minutes; and,upon withdrawing the mould, let it stand for five minutes,that its contents may settle. Turn out upon a round dish; poura Toulousaine garnish (see Poularde No. 1524) in the middle,and surround the turban with a thread of Allemande sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1625" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MIGNONNETTES de POULET</h3>
		<p>Take the required number of small, minion fillets of pullet;trim them; make six incisions in each, and half-insert into eachof these incisions alternate thin roundels of truffle and tongue.</p>
		<p>Set these minion fillets on a buttered dish, and shape themlike rings.</p>
		<p>Trim and indent the edges of as many artichoke-bottoms asthere are minion fillets, and heat them in butter. Garnish theseartichoke-bottoms, dome-fashion, with a very white and some-what stiff chicken pur£e. Sprinkle the minion fillets with alittle mushroom cooking-liquor, and poach them in the ovenfor from five to six minutes.</p>
		<p>Set the artichoke-bottoms in a circle on a round dish, andset a minion fillet upon each.</p>
		<p>Serve a very delicate Supreme sauce, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1626" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— NONNETTES de POULET AGNES SOREL</h3>
		<p>Truss twelve ortolans for entries, and stiffen them in butterfor a moment.</p>
		<p>Raise the fillets of twelve spring chickens; trim them; flattenthem slightly and pair them off, putting the edges of one onthe other, that a larger surface may be obtained.</p>
		<p>5i7</p>
		<p>In the middle of these joined supremes of chicken, put anortolan; wrap it in them, and tie them round once or twicewith string, that they may keep the shape of a panpiette.</p>
		<p>Set these paupiettes in a shallow saut^pan, and, five minutesbefore serving, sprinkle them with four oz. of boiling butter;salt moderately, and cook in a fierce oven.</p>
		<p>After having removed the string, set each nonnette on asquare, hollowed crouton of bread-crumb, fried in butter, andcoated inside with foie-gras purée. Coat moderately with alight chicken glaze, finished with butter, and squeeze a dropof lemon juice on each nonnette.</p>
		<h3 id="1627" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—URSULINES de NANCY</h3>
		<p>Prepare some barquette crusts.</p>
		<p>Mould some chicken forcemeat into large, round, regularquenelles, and poach them in some white consomm^, in timefor them to be ready when the Ursulines are being dished.</p>
		<p>A few moments before serving, garnish the barquette crustswith foie-gras purée, thinned with a little good half-glaze,flavoured with port or sherry wine. In the middle of each gar-nished barquette, set a well-drained mousseline quenelle; deckeach quenelle with a thin and wide slice of truffle; set a smallheap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, at either end ofthe barquettes, that is to say, on either side of the quenelle; andslightly coat the latter with chicken glaze, finished with butter.</p>
		<p>Serve, separately, a sauceboat containing some of the samechicken glaze with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1628" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FILETS de POULET à la SAINT-GERMAIN</h3>
		<p>Season the fillets, dip them in melted butter and roll themin bread-crumbs; grill them gently, each on a sheet of oiledpaper, and sprinkle with clarified butter during the operation.</p>
		<p>Dish the grilled fillets, and serve at the same time :—(1) aB^arnaise sauce; (2) a timbale containing a puree of foie graswith cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1629" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FILETS de POULET MIREILLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a garnish as for No. 1365; i.e., sliced, raw potatoesand artichoke-bottoms, set in a small earthenware dish andcooked as “Pommes Anna.”</p>
		<p>Saute the fillets in butter at the last moment; put them onthe garnish, and sprinkle them with nut-brown butter.</p>
		<p>518</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>SPRING CHICKENS (POULETS de GRAINS)</p>
		<p>Spring chickens are usually either grilled or prepared “encasserole” in accordance with one or another of the manyrecipes applicable to them.</p>
		<h3 id="1630" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS à la BELLE-MEUNlERE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the chicken with four sliced chickens’ livers and threeoz. of raw, quartered mushrooms, slightly tossed in butter.Slip five or six fine slices of truffle under the skin of the breast;truss the chicken as for an entree, and brown it in butter.</p>
		<p>This done, put it into an oval cocotte, with two oz. of butter,four rectangles of blanched breast of pork, and three oz. ofraw quartered mushrooms, quickly tossed in butter beforehand.</p>
		<p>Cook in the oven, under cover, and add two tablespoonfulsof veal gravy, just before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="1631" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS à la BERGERE</h3>
		<p>Fry in butter four oz. of blanched breast of pork, cutinto dice, and one-half lb. of small, whole mushrooms. Drain,and set to brown in the same butter, the chicken stuffed witha half-onion and three oz. of mushrooms, chopped and friedin butter, and mixed with three oz. of butter and a coffee-spoonful of chopped parsley.</p>
		<p>When the chicken is well coloured or gilded, put the baconand the mushrooms round it; swill with one-sixth pint of whitewine; reduce by two-thirds; add four tablespoonfuls of vealgravy, and complete the cooking of the chicken in the oven.</p>
		<p>Set it on a round dish; thicken the cooking-liquor with apiece of manied butter, the size of a hazel-nut, or a little arrow-root; pour the sauce and the garnish round the chicken, andsurround it with a border of freshly-fried straw potatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="1632" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS BONNE FEMME</h3>
		<p>Fry in butter four oz. of breast of fresh or salted pork, cutinto slices and blanched. Drain; colour the chicken in the sametat, and put it in an oval cocotte with the slices of bacon.</p>
		<p>With the same fat, fry in a frying-pan two-thirds lb. ofpotatoes cut to the shape of corks and divided into roundels;put these round the chicken, and set to cook in the oven, undercover.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, sprinkle the fowl with a few table-spoonfuls of veal gravy.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation in the cocotte.</p>
		<p>5J9</p>
		<h3 id="1633" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS EN CASSEROLE</h3>
		<p>Poele the chicken with butter in an earthenware saucepan,and baste it often the while. When about to serve, clear of allgrease, and add a tablespoonful of veal gravy.</p>
		<p>This chicken is served plain, without any garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1634" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS EN COCOTTE</h3>
		<p>Brown the chicken in butter, in a cocotte, and under cover.</p>
		<p>When it is half-done, surround it with two oz. of frizzledpieces of fresh or salted pork cut in dice, twelve small onionspartly cooked in butter, and twenty small potatoes, the size andshape of olives.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the whole together, and, whenabout to serve, sprinkle with a little veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1635" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS CLAMART</h3>
		<p>Brown the chicken in butter; half-cook it, and put it in acocotte with one-half pint of half-cooked peas h la Fran^aise(No. 2193), the cooking-liquor of which should be very short.Complete the cooking of the whole, together, and serve the pre-paration as it stands, without cohering the peas.</p>
		<h3 id="1636" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS GRILLE DIABLE</h3>
		<p>Truss the chicken as for an entree; split it open lengthwisealong the middle of the back; flatten it with a butcher’s beater,and remove as many bones as possible. Season it; sprinkleit with melted butter, and half-cook it in the oven.</p>
		<p>This done, coat it thoroughly with mustard strengthened bymeans of cayenne; sprinkle copiously with bread-crumbs; pressupon the latter with the flat of a knife, that they may adhereto the mustard; sprinkle a little melted butter over the bird, andcomplete the latter’s cooking gently on the grill.</p>
		<p>Set on a round dish, bordered with thin slices of lemon, andserve a Devilled Sauce EscofRer separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1637" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS, GRILLE à l’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>(Spatchcock)</p>
		<p>Split the chicken open, laterally, proceeding from the ex-tremity of the belly to the wing-joints. Open it without separat-ing the two halves, flatten it so as to break the joints and thebones, and remove the fragments of the latter with great care.</p>
		<p>Fix the wings by means of a skewer; sprinkle the chickenwith melted butter, season it, and half-cook it in the oven.</p>
		<p>This done, sprinkle it with bread-crumbs and melted butter,and complete its cooking on the grill. Set it on a round dish,bordered with gherkins, and serve it as it stands.</p>
		<p>520</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1638" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS aux FONDS D’ARTICHAUTS</h3>
		<p>Brown the chicken in butter, and put it in a cocotte withfive fair-sized artichoke-bottoms, sliced while raw, and tossedin butter.</p>
		<p>Complete its cooking gently in the oven, and, when aboutto serve, add a tablespoonful of veal gravy and a few drops oflemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="1639" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS à l’HOTFLIERE</h3>
		<p>Bone the chicken’s breast; stuff it with one-half lb. of goodsausage-meat, and truss it as for an entree. Brown it withbutter in an earthenware saucepan, and put it in the oven.</p>
		<p>When it is twfo-thirds done, add to it four oz. of quarteredmushrooms, sauted in butter, complete its cooking, and, whenabout to serve, finish it writh three tablespoonfuls of veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1640" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS à la KATOFF</h3>
		<p>Split the chicken open along the back, and half-cook it inthe oven as in No. 1636. This done, complete its cooking onthe grill.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, mould on a round, buttered dish a sort of galetteof Duchesse potatoes (No. 2212), one inch thick. Gild, andcolour in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish the grilled chicken on this galette, and surround thelatter with a thread of strong veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1641" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS à la LIMOUSINE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the chicken with one-half lb. of good sausage-meat,combined with two oz. of chopped mushrooms fried in butter.Put the chicken in a cocotte with one oz. of butter and sixrectangles of blanched breast of bacon, and cook gently in theoven.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, add two or three tablespoonfuls ofveal gravy.</p>
		<p>Send, separately, six fine chestnuts cooked in consommd.</p>
		<h3 id="1642" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULET de GRAINS MASCOTTE</h3>
		<p>Brown the chicken in butter, and cook it “en casserole”with four oz. of potatoes the size and shape of olives and tossedin butter.</p>
		<p>When the chicken is almost cooked, put it in a cocotte withthe potatoes all round, two tablespoonfuls of veal gravy, andtwo oz. of sliced truffles set upon it.</p>
		<p>Cover the cocotte; put the chicken in the front of the ovenfor ten minutes, and serve it as it stands.</p>
		<p>521</p>
		<h3 id="1643" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS aux MGRILLES</h3>
		<p>Prepare this chicken like the one “en casserole,” and sur-round it with one-half lb. of morels, tossed in butter for amoment. Complete the cooking under cover, and, when aboutto serve, finish with one tablespoonful of veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1644" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS SOUVAROFFProceed exactly as explained under No. 1520, but reducethe garnish by half.</h3>
		<h3 id="1645" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULET de GRAINS TARTAREProceed as for No. 1636, but serve a Tartare sauce at thesame time.</h3>
		<p>CHICKS (POUSSINS)</p>
		<p>The most perfect example of this class would be the Ham-burg chick, were it not for the fact that it is too often kept inconfinement and fed on fish, which gives a disagreeable flavourto the young bird.</p>
		<p>When it is bred rationally, however, this chick is a greatdelicacy.</p>
		<h3 id="1646" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POUSSINS CENDRILLONOpen the chicks along the back, and brown them in butter,This done, season them with salt and cayenne, and put thembetween twTo layers of pork forcemeat. Wrap them in very softpig’s caul. Dip them in melted butter; roll them in bread-crumbs, and grill them gently for twenty or twenty-five minutes.Dish, and serve a P^rigueux sauce separately.</h3>
		<h3 id="1647" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POUSSINS à la PIEMONTAISEStuff each chick with one and one-half oz. of white Pied-mont truffles, pounded with an equal weight of very fresh porkfat. Now truss them as for an entree; string them and fry themin butter over a fierce fire. At the end of ten minutes putthem in a cocotte; partly surround and cover them writh rizotto&amp; la Pi^montaise, and complete the cooking in the oven withlid off.</h3>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, sprinkle the rizotto with gratedParmesan; glaze; and, at the last minute, sprinkle with nut-brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1648" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POUSSINS à la POLONAISEStuff each chick with one and one-half oz. of gratin force-meat, two-thirds oz. of soaked and pressed bread-crumbs, one-third oz. of butter, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Truss asfor entries; string; quickly fry the chicks in butter in a very</h3>
		<p>522 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>hot oven; put them in a cocotte, and complete their cooking inthe oven.</p>
		<p>At the last moment sprinkle them with a few drops oflemon juice and nut-brown butter, combined with one oz. ofbread-crumbs per four oz. of butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1649" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POUSSINS à la TARTARS</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for “Poulet a la Tartare.”</p>
		<h3 id="1650" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TOURTE de POUSSINS à la PAYSANNE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a round layer of short paste, ten inches in diameter.Upon this paste spread two-thirds lb. of sausage-meat, com-bined with five oz. of dry Duxelles, taking care to leave a margintwo inches wide of bare paste all round.</p>
		<p>Upon this coating of forcemeat set ten half-chicks, stiffenedin butter; sprinkle two-thirds lb. of chopped mushrooms, sautedin butter, over them; spread a second coating of sausage-meatand Duxelles over the whole; cover with a very thin slice ofbacon, and close the whole with a layer of paste a little largerthan the underlying one, the edges of which should have beenmoistened. Seal the two edges, and pleat regularly; gild;streak; make a slit in the top, and bake in a moderate oven forabout forty minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking the tourte out of the oven, pour into it, throughthe slit in its cover, a few tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1651" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POUSSINS à la VIENNOISE</h3>
		<p>Cut the chicks each into four pieces; season them; dredgethem; dip them in beaten egg, and roll them in bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, put them in hot fat; drainthem, and dish them in pyramid form on a folded napkin.Surround with fried parsley and sections of lemon, and servevery hot.</p>
		<p>Various Preparations of Fowl</p>
		<h3 id="1652" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— ABATIS aux NAVETS</h3>
		<p>Fry one-half lb. of blanched breast of pork, cut into dice, inbutter. Drain, and fry in the same'saut^pan three lbs. of giblets,cut into pieces (all except the livers, which are only added one-quarter hour before dishing). Sprinkle with two and one-half oz. of flour; mix the latter with the pieces, and cook it inthe oven for seven or eight minutes; moisten with three pintsof white stock. Season with a pinch of pepper; add afaggot and a crushed, garlic clove; set to boil, stirring thewhile; cover, and place in a somewhat hot oven, that the pre-paration may boil gently.</p>
		<p>523</p>
		<p>At the end of thirty-five minutes transfer the pieces to an-other saucepan; put back the bacon; add twenty-four smallonions, tossed in butter, one lb. of turnips shaped like elongatedolives and glazed, and strain the sauce over the whole.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking gently, and serve in a timbale.</p>
		<p>N.B.—With the same procedure, the giblets may be pre-pared with peas; with mixed, new vegetables; k la chipolata, &amp;c.</p>
		<h3 id="1653" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—GIBLET PIE</h3>
		<p>Fry the giblets, cut into pieces, in butter; sprinkle themmoderately with, flour; cook the latter, and moisten with justsufficient consomm^ to make a clear sauce which will just coverthe pieces. Three-parts cook, and leave to cool.</p>
		<p>This done, pour the whole into a pie-dish; cover with a layerof puff-paste, which should be sealed down to a strip of paste,stuck to the edge of the dish; gild; streak, and bake in a mode-rately warm oven for from twenty-five to thirty minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="1654" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BALLOTINES ET JAMBONNEAUX</h3>
		<p>These preparations are useful for disposing of any odd legsof fowls, the other parts of which have been already used. Thelegs are boned and stuffed, and the skin, which should be pur-posely left long if this preparation be contemplated, is thensewn up. The stuffing used varies according to the kind of dishin preparation, but good sausage-meat is most commonly used.</p>
		<p>Ballotines or Jambonneaux are braised, and they may beaccompanied by any garnish suited to fowl.</p>
		<p>If they be prepared for serving cold, coat them with jelly, orcover them with brown or white chaud-froid sauce, and garnishthem according to fancy.</p>
		<p>Boudins et Quenelles de Volaille</p>
		<h3 id="1655" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BOUDINS de VOLAILLE à la RICHELIEU</h3>
		<p>Take the required amount of chicken forcemeat, preparedwith panada and cream, and divide it into three-oz. portions.Roll these portions into sausage-form, and open them so as tostuff them with some white chicken-meat, truffle and mushroomsalpicon, cohered with reduced Allemande sauce. Thesequenelles may also be moulded in little, rectangular cases, usedin biscuit-making, as follows:—Line the bottom and sides ofthe moulds, which should be well buttered, with a thickness ofone-third inch of forcemeat; garnish the centre with salpicon;cover with forcemeat up to the edges, and smooth with theblade of a small knife dipped in tepid water.</p>
		<p>524</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Whichever way they are made, however, the boudins arepoached like quenelles, and are afterwards drained on a piece oflinen. They are then dipped in beaten egg and rolled in bread-crumbs, and, finally, gently coloured in clarified butter, thattheir inside may get heated at the same time.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle on a folded napkin, and serve a P£ri-gueux sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1656" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BOUDINS de VOLAILLE SOUBISE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the boudins with some forcemeat as above, butreplace the salpicon inside by a very reduced .and cold truffledSoubise pur£e.</p>
		<p>Poach, dip in beaten egg, and roll in bread-crumbs, andcolour as before in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Serve a clear Soubise separately.</p>
		<p>*657—QUENELLES de VOLAILLE MORLAND</p>
		<p>Mould some portions of somewhat firm chicken mousselineforcemeat into the shape of oval quenelles, three oz. in weight.Dip them in beaten egg; roll them in finely minced truffle, andpress lightly on the latter with the blade of a knife, in orderthat it may combine with the egg.</p>
		<p>Poach gently in clarified butter, tinder cover, that the force-meat may be well cooked.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and in the middle pour a mushroom purée.</p>
		<h3 id="1658" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— QUENELLES de VOLAILLE D’UZES</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of some oval buttered quenellemoulds with chicken forcemeat prepared with panada and cream.Garnish the middle with a mince of the white of chicken meatcohered with reduced Allemande sauce, and cover with force-meat.</p>
		<p>Poach the quenelles in good time; drain them on a piece oflinen; set them in a circle on a round dish, and coat withAurore sauce. Garnish the centre of the circle with a fineJulienne of truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1659" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAPILOTADE de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare an Italienne sauce, combined with cooked, slicedmushrooms. Add to this sauce some thin slices of cold fowlremains, and heat without allowing to boil at all.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle a little chopped parsley overthe preparation.</p>
		<h3 id="1660" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CHICKEN PIE</h3>
		<p>Cut a fowl into pieces as for a fricassee; season the pieces,and sprinkle them with three finely-chopped onions, one and</p>
		<p>5*5</p>
		<p>one-half oz. of chopped mushrooms cooked in butter, and apinch of chopped parsley.</p>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with thin slices ofveal; set the pieces of fowl inside, putting the legs undermost:add five oz. of thin slices of bacon; the yolks of four hard-boiled eggs cut into two; and moisten sufficiently to three-partscover with chicken consomm£. Cover with a layer of puff-paste, which should be sealed down to a strip of paste stuck tothe edges of the pie-dish; gild; streak; make a slit in the middleof the paste, and bake in a moderate oven for one and one-halfhours.</p>
		<p>When taking the pie out of the oven, pour a few table-spoonfuls of strong gravy into it.</p>
		<h3 id="1661" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CRATES ET ROGNONS de COQ</h3>
		<p>In order to prepare cocks’ combs and kidneys, they shouldbe first set to soak in cold water for a few hours.</p>
		<p>If they are fresh, they should be put in a saucepan of coldwater; the latter should be made lukewarm, and they shouldthen be drained and rubbed in a towel that their skins may beremoved. This done, they are trimmed, and kept in fresh water,which ought to be frequently changed until they are quite white.</p>
		<p>They may then be cooked in a very light Blanc (No. 167).</p>
		<p>The kidneys are merely soaked in cold water for a few hours,and put to cook with the combs a few minutes before the latterare ready.</p>
		<p>Cocks’ combs and kidneys are mostly used as garnish;nevertheless, they also serve in the preparation of special dishes,for which I shall now give a few recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="1662" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CRETES ET ROGNONS de COQ à la GRECQUE</h3>
		<p>About twenty-five minutes before serving, prepare a pintof pilaff rice, combined with one half-capsicum cut into dice,and a very little saffron.</p>
		<p>Also prepare ten roundels of egg-plant, seasoned, dredged,and fried in oil just before dishing. The moment the riceis cooked, add thereto twenty-four very fresh cocks’ kidneys,frizzled in butter, and twelve fine blanched cocks’ combs, poeledafter the manner of lambs’ sweetbreads.</p>
		<p>Set the whole in a silver saucepan, arrange the egg-plantroundels in a circle on the rice, and serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="1663" class="formula" xml:lang="fr"> -DESIRS de MASCOTTE</h3>
		<p>Put three oz. of butter in a vegetable-pan, and fry it nut-brown.</p>
		<p>526</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Add to this butter twenty-four fine cocks’ kidneys (it isessential that these should be fresh); season them with salt,pepper, and a little red pepper, and cook them for from fiveto six minutes, which should prove sufficient.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, prepare twelve croutons of bread-crumbs, one-third inch thick, stamped out with a round cutter two-thirdsinch in diameter. Fry these croutons in butter at the lastminute.</p>
		<p>Put four fine, very black truffles, cut into somewhat thickslices, into the required quantity of reduced half-glaze sauce;add the kidneys, drained of their butter, as well as the friedcrusts, one and one-half oz. of very best butter, and a few dropsof lemon juice, and roll the saucepan gently, that the butter maythoroughly combine with the sauce.</p>
		<p>Dish immediately in a very hot, silver timbale, and serveinstantly.</p>
		<h3 id="1664" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ROQNONS de COQ FARCIS pour ENTREESFROIDES, GARNITURES, ETC.</h3>
		<p>Choose some fine, cooked kidneys, and cut them into twolengthwise. Trim them slightly underneath, that they may liesteady.</p>
		<p>Stuff them by means of a piping-bag with a highly seasonedpur6e of foie gras, or of ham, of the white of a chicken andtruffles, combined with an equal weight of fresh butter.</p>
		<p>Coat them with a pink or white chaud-froid sauce, accordingto the requirements; set them in a low timbale, and cover themwith light jelly.</p>
		<p>They may also be put into petits-fours moulds, surroundedwith jelly, and used as a garnish for cold fowls.</p>
		<h3 id="1664" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—CHICKEN CROQUETTES and CUTLETS</h3>
		<p>The croquettes and cutlets with which we are now concernedare made up of exactly the same constituents, and only differin the matter of shape, the croquettes, as a rule, being shapedeither like corks or rectangles; sometimes, too, like quoits;whereas the cutlets, as their name implies, are made in cutlet-shaped moulds.</p>
		<p>The preparation from which they are made is as follows: —One lb. of the meat of a poached or roast fowl, thoroughlycleared of all skin, cartilage, and bones, and cut into smallregular dice1; six oz. of cooked mushrooms; an equal amountof salted ox-tongue or York ham, and four oz. of truffles. Cut</p>
		<p>1 When prepared as directed above, all meats, whether of poultry, game,fish, Crustacea or mollusca, &amp;c., may serve in the preparation of croquettes orcutlets.</p>
		<p>527</p>
		<p>these various products like the chicken, and mix them there-with; then add one-half pint of very reduced and finished Alle-mande sauce to the whole; set the preparation to dry for a fewminutes over an open fire; this done, remove it from the latter,and thicken it with the yolks of four raw eggs, which shouldbe quickly mixed with it. Now pour the preparation into avery clean, buttered tray, and butter its surface, lest a crustform thereon during the cooling.</p>
		<p>When the preparation is quite cold, transfer it, by means ofa spoon, in pieces weighing about two oz., to a flour-dustedmixing board. Make the croquettes and cutlets about thedesired shape; dip them into an anglaise, and roll them infine bread-crumbs. Definitely shape them; plunge them intovery hot fat; keep them therein till they have acquired a finegolden colour; drain them, and dish them in a crown on a nap-kin, with a heap of fried parsley in the middle.</p>
		<p>Croquettes and cutlets may be garnished as fancy sug-gests, but the accompaniment should always be served sepa-rately. Tomato and P6rigueux sauces are the most commonlyused, and the best garnishes for the purpose are all the purges,peas, French beans, and jardinieres.</p>
		<p>Chickens’ Livers (Foies de Volaille)</p>
		<h3 id="1665" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BROCHETTES de FOIES de VOLAILLECollop the livers; quickly stiffen them in butter, and thentreat them exactly as explained under “Brochettes deRognons” (No. 1343).</h3>
		<h3 id="1666" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FOIES de VOLAILLE ET ROGNONSSAUTES au VIN ROUGEProceed according to the recipe given under “RognonsSautes au Champagne” (No. 1333), using sliced chickens’livers and cocks’ kidneys in equal quantities, and substitutingexcellent red wine for the Champagne.</h3>
		<p>N.B.—Chickens’ livers are also prepared sautes chasseur;sautes fines herbes, au gratin; en coquilles; en pilaw, &amp;c. Referto sheeps’ kidneys for these preparations.</p>
		<h3 id="1667" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FRICASSEE de POULET à l’ANCIENNEFor a fricassee cut up the chicken as for a saute, but dividethe legs into two. The procedure is exactly that of “Fricasseede Veau” (No. 1276)—that is to say, the chicken is cooked inthe sauce.</h3>
		<p>About ten minutes before serving, add ten small onions,</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>528</p>
		<p>cooked in white consomm^, and ten small grooved mushroom-heads. Finish at the last moment with a pinch of choppedparsley and chives. Thicken the sauce at the last moment withthe yolks of two eggs, four tablespoonfuls of cream, and one oz.of best butter.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and surround the fricassee with littleflowerets of puff-paste, baked without colouration.</p>
		<h3 id="1668" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FRICASSEE de POULET aux ECREVISSES</h3>
		<p>Prepare the fricassee as above, and add thereto as garnishten small, cooked mushrooms, and the shelled tails of twelvecrayfish, cooked as for bisque. When about to serve, finishthe fricassee with two and one-half oz. of crayfish butter, madefrom the crayfishes’ carcasses and their cooking-liquor rubbedthrough linen.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1669" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FRITOT OU MARINADE de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Cut some boiled or roast fowl into slices, and marinade thesein a few drops of oil, lemon juice, and some chopped herbs forone-quarter hour. Boiled fowl is preferable, in that the greaterporousness of its meat facilitates the percolation of the marinadethrough it.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, dip the slices into very lightbatter, and put them into very hot fat. Drain, the moment thebatter is well gilded; dish on a napkin with fried parsley, andserve a tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Nowadays Fritot and Marinade of fowl are identicallythe same dish, but formerly they differed in this, namely, thatthe Fritot was prepared from cooked fowl, and the Marinadefrom pieces of uncooked fowl which were marinaded before-hand.</p>
		<h3 id="1670" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— M0US5ES ET MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Both these preparations have for basic ingredient the mous-seline forcemeat of No. 195. They differ in that the“Mousses” are prepared singly for one service, i.e., for severalpeople at once, and that the “Mousselines,” which are vir-tually special quenelles, are prepared in the proportion of oneor two for each person.</p>
		<p>In different parts of this work, especially under No. 797, thesubject has already been exhaustively treated; there is no neednow, therefore, to go over the ground again.</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>529</p>
		<h3 id="1671" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE ALEXANDRA</h3>
		<p>Mould and poach the Mousselines. Drain them, and setthem in a circle on a round dish; place on each a fine slice ofcooked fowl, and upon the latter a slice of truffle. Coat withMornay sauce, glaze quickly, and, in the middle of the mous-selines, set a heap of asparagus-heads or small peas, coheredwith butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1672" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE à l’INDIENNE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the mousselines as above; set them in a circle on around dish; coat with Indienne sauce, and serve a timbale ofrice &amp; l’lndienne separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1673" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE au PAPRIKA</h3>
		<p>When the mousselines are poached and dished, set uponeach a fine collop of supreme, and coat with supreme sauce withpaprika. Surround them with small timbales of pilaff rice com-bined with concassed tomatoes cooked in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="1674" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE à la PATTI</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Mousselines Alexandra,” but coat them</p>
		<p>with supreme sauce, finished with crayfish butter. In theirmidst set a heap of asparagus-heads, cohered with butter, andupon these lay some fine slices of glazed truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1675" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE à la SICILIENNE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the mousselines as above, and set them, each on anoval tartlet, garnished with macaroni &amp; la Napolitaine. Coatthem with supreme sauce; besprinkle with grated Parmesan,and glaze quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="1676" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SYLPHIDES de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare and poach the mousselines in the usual way.Garnish the bottom of some barquettes with Mornay sauce,and put a mousseline into each barquette.</p>
		<p>Set a collop of fowl on each mousseline, and cover them witha somewhat stiff preparation of souff!6 au Parmesan (No. 2295a),applied ornamentally by means of a piping-bag fitted with aneven pipe. Put the sylphides in the oven, in order to cook thesouffle, and serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="1677" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de VOLAILLE à la FLORENTINE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for the sylphides; taking note only of this differ-ence, viz., that the bottom of the barquettes must be garnishedwith shredded spinach stewed in butter. For the other detailsof the operation the procedure is the same.</p>
		<p>M M</p>
		<p>530</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1678" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PILAW de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Pilaff, which is the national dish of Orientals, gives riseto an endless number of recipes. The various curries ofveal, lamb, and fowl are “pilaffs,” and all except the one “k laParisienne,” which I give below, follow the same method ofpreparation—namely, that of curry; but for a change in thecondiments and the treatment of the rice, which is not the sameas that of “Riz &amp; l’lndienne.”</p>
		<h3 id="1679" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PILAW de VOLAILLE à la GRECQUE</h3>
		<p>Cut the fowl into small pieces, and fry it in mutton fat withthree oz. of chopped onions. Sprinkle with one oz. of flour;moisten with one pint of white consomm^; add twTo-thirds of acapsicum, cut into dice, and one and one-half oz. of currantsand sultanas, and cook gently.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and serve some pilaw rice separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1680" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PILAW de VOLAILLE à l’ORIENTALE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the fowl as above, only flavour it with a littlepowdered ginger, and add three green braised and quarteredcapsicums to the sauce.</p>
		<p>Serve a timbale of pilaff rice at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1681" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PILAW de VOLAILLE à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut up the fowl as for a fricassde; season it; fry it in butter,and add thereto three and one-half oz. of rice, browned inbutter, with one chopped onion, a leaf of bay, and two peeledand concassed tomatoes. Moisten with enough white brothto more than cover, and cook in a very hot oven for twTenty-fiveminutes. At the end of this time the fowl and rice are cooked,and the rice should be quite dry.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle then with one-sixth pint of veal stock; mix thelatter with the pilaff by means of a fork, and dish with care ina timbale.</p>
		<p>Serve a sauceboat of tomato sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1682" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PILAW de VOLAILLE à la TURQUE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the fowl as for “Pilaw k la Parisienne,” and flavourwith a little cayenne and another of saffron. Dish in a tim-bale.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Pilaff may also be prepared with cooked fowl, cutinto slices which are heated in butter. In this case, garnish thebottoms and sides of a timbale with tomated pilaff rice; put theslices of fowl in the middle; cover with rice, and turn out thetimbale on the dish.</p>
		<p>Surround the timbale with a thread of tomato sauce.</p>
		<p>53*</p>
		<h3 id="1683" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLES de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>For dinners on a large scale, it is in every way preferableto use raw chicken-meat. For small services, cooked chicken-meat suits perfectly.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The time allowed for cooking chicken souffles withcooked chicken-meat is comparatively long, and it is better tocook them a little too much than not enough.</p>
		<p>For a souffle made in a quart timbale, and cooked in amoderate oven as directed, allow from about twenty-five tothirty minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="1684" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLE de VOLAILLE with RAW MEAT</h3>
		<p>Prepare two lbs. of mousseline forcemeat of chicken, accord-ing to recipe No. 195; add to this the whites of fpur eggs beatento a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Dish in buttered timbales, and cook in a moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1685" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLE de VOLAILLE with COOKED MEAT</h3>
		<p>Finely pound one lb. of the white of cooked chicken-meat;add thereto six tablespoonfuls of cold, reduced, Bdchamel sauce.Rub through tammy.</p>
		<p>Heat this preparation in a saucepan, without allowing it toboil, and add to it one and one-half oz. of butter, the yolks offive eggs, and the whites of six, beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Dish in a buttered timbale, and cook in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Supreme sauce and the other derivatives of Allemande sauceform the best accompaniments to chicken souffles.</p>
		<h3 id="1686" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLE de VOLAILLE à la PERIGORD</h3>
		<p>This may be made from either one of the two above-men*tioned preparations, but there must be added to it three and one-half oz. of chopped truffles. The preparation is then spread inlayers separated by slices of truffle, which should weigh aboutthree and one-half oz. in all, in order to be in proportion to thequantities already given.</p>
		<p>Cold Preparations of Fowl.</p>
		<h3 id="1687" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la CARMELITE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet; raise the supremes and remove their skin;slice them; coat them with white chaud-froid sauce, and de-corate them soberly with pieces of truffle. Trim the carcass:coat it outside with white chaud-froid sauce, and fill it with afine crayfish mousse, reconstructing it exactly in so doing.</p>
		<p>Cause a mousse to set in a refrigerator; place the collops of</p>
		<p>MM2</p>
		<p>53*</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>supreme neatly upon it, in two rows, and between each row laya dozen fine crayfish tails shelled and trimmed.</p>
		<p>Coat the whole with half-melted aspic jelly; set in a deepdish; incrust the latter in a block of ice, and pour enough verygood, melting aspic jelly (No. 159) over the pullet to half-immerse it.</p>
		<h3 id="1688" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE au CHAMPAGNE</h3>
		<p>Stuff a pullet two days beforehand with a whole foie grasstudded with truffles and stiffened in butter for twenty minutes.Poele it in champagne; put it in a cocotte; cover it with itspoeling-Yiquor, containing a sufficient addition of succulentjelly, and leave it to cool.</p>
		<p>On the morrow remove, by means of a spoon, the greasethat has settled on the jelly, and scald the latter twice or thricewith boiling water, in order to remove the last traces of grease.</p>
		<p>Serve this pullet very cold, in the same cocotte in which ithas cooled.</p>
		<h3 id="1689" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE EN CHAUD = FROID</h3>
		<p>Poach the pullet; let it cool in its cooking-liquor; cut it up,and clear the pieces of all skin. Dip the pieces in chaud-froidsauce, already prepared from the pullet’s cooking-liquor ifpossible, and arrange them on a tray. Decorate each piece witha fine slice of truffle; glaze with cold, melted jelly; leave toset, and trim the edges of the pieces, just before dishingthem.</p>
		<p>Old method of dishing: Formerly, chaud-froids were dishedon a cushion of bread or rice, placed in the middle of aborder of jelly; and, between each piece, cocks’ combs andmushrooms, covered with chaud-froid sauce or jelly, were set.</p>
		<p>They were also dished on stearine tazzas, made in specialmoulds; but these methods, however much they may have beenhonoured by old cookery, are generally scouted at the presentday.</p>
		<p>The method of dishing detailed hereafter is steadily oustingthem; it allows of serving much more delicate and more agree-able chaud-froids in the simplest possible way, and wasinaugurated at my suggestion at the Savoy Hotel.</p>
		<p>Modern method of dishing: Set the decorated pieces, coatedwith chaud-froid sauce, side by side on a layer of excellent aspicjelly, lying on the bottom of a deep square dish. Cover themwith the same aspic, which should be half melted, and leaveto set. When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block ofcarved ice, or surround it with the latter fragmented.</p>
		<p>533</p>
		<p>This procedure allows of using less gelatinous products inthe preparation of the aspic, and the latter is therefore muchmore delicate, mellow, and melting.</p>
		<p>i69o_POULARDE EN CHAUD-FROID à l’ECOSSAISE</p>
		<p>Having poached and cooled the pullets, raise the supremes,and cut each into three or four collops. Garnish these collops,dome-fashion, with a salpicon consisting of the meat cut fromthe carcass, combined with an equal quantity of salted tongueand truffle, and cohered with reduced chicken jelly.</p>
		<p>Coat these collops with white chaud-froid sauce; sprinklethem immediately with very red tongue, truffle, gherkins, andhard-boiled white of egg; all chopped, mixed, and glazed with</p>
		<p>jelly. .</p>
		<p>Now set the collops in a deep, square silver dish, alternatingthem with oval slices of salted tongue.</p>
		<p>Garnish their midst with a salad of French beans, cutlozenge-form and cohered with aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1691" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHAUD-FROID FELIX FAURE</h3>
		<p>Raise the supremes of a fine pullet; cut them in two inthe thick part, without separating them, and slightly flattenthem. Lay them on a piece of linen; season them; and, on oneof their halves, spread a layer of foie-gras purde thickened witha little chicken forcemeat. Upon this layer set some rectanglesof raw foie gras, one-third in. thick; cover with purde, set someslices of truffle upon the latter; coat again with purde; moistenwith white of egg, and over the whole press the other half ofthe supreme. Wrap each supreme, prepared in this way, in apiece of muslin; poach them in a moderate oven, after havingmoistened them to within half their height with chicken stock;and leave them to cool in their cooking-liquor under slightpressure.</p>
		<p>This done, take off the muslin, and cut each supreme intoten or twelve medallions. Envelop each medallion in a mousseof chicken made with the meat of the poached eggs, and leaveto set. Then coat each medallion with white chaud-froid sauce,and deck each with a fine slice of truffle.</p>
		<p>Clothe a dome-mould with a fine chicken jelly, and decorateit with slices of truffle; put the medallions inside, proceeding asfor an aspic, and leave to set.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out on a serviette.</p>
		<h3 id="1692" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHAUD-FROID de POULARDE à la GOUNOD</h3>
		<p>Raise the supremes of a poached pullet, and cool them underpressure.</p>
		<p>534</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Then cut them into rectangles of equal sizes; and, if neces-sary, bisect them in the thickness.</p>
		<p>Prepare a slab of mousse (made from the legs and thetrimmings), twice as thick as the rectangles. Smoothen thismousse neatly, and put it in the refrigerator that it mayget firm. This done, cut it into pieces exactly equal in sizeto the supremes; to do this, all that is necessary is to stickthe latter on the mousse by means of jelly.</p>
		<p>Now coat each supreme garnished with mousse with whitechaud-froid sauce, and decorate with a bar of notes, imitatedwith truffles.</p>
		<p>Set in a square, deep silver dish; cover with limpid andmelting chicken jelly; leave to set, and serve the dish incrustedin a block of ice.</p>
		<p>,693—CHAUD-FROID de POULARDE à la ROSSINI</p>
		<p>Prepare the pieces as for ordinary chaud-froid, and coat themwith chaud-froid sauce combined with a quarter of its bulk ofvery smooth foie-gras pur£e. Decorate each piece with a lyrecomposed of truffle stamped out with a “lyre” fancy-cutter, setthem on a deep, square dish, and cover with chicken jelly asabove.</p>
		<p>694—POULARDE à la DAMPIERRE</p>
		<p>Completely bone the pullet’s breast, and stuff it with apreparation of chicken forcemeat (No. 200). Sew up the piece,truss it as for an entrde, and poach it in a chicken stock.</p>
		<p>When it is cold, trim it, and coat it with a white chaud-froidsauce, combined with a little almond milk. Glaze with aspicjelly, and set it, without decorating it, on a low cushion lying ona long dish.</p>
		<p>Surround it with six small, ham mousses and six small,chicken uiousses, moulded in deep dariolc-moulds, and arrangedalternately.</p>
		<p>Border the dish with croutons of jelly, cut very neatly.</p>
		<h3 id="1695" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULETS à l’ECARLATE</h3>
		<p>Bone the breasts of three fair-sized chickens; stuff and poachthem as explained above. When they are quite cold, cover themwith white chaud-froid sauce; decorate with pieces of truffle;glaze with aspic jelly, and leave to set.</p>
		<p>This done, set them upright on a dish, letting them leanone against the other. Between each chicken set a salted calf’stongue, upright, with the tip of the tongue pointing upwards;and, on either side of the tongues, a large glazed truffle.</p>
		<p>535</p>
		<p>Border the dish with fine crotitons of jelly, and serve amayonnaise sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1696" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la LAMBERTYEPoach the pullet and let it cool thoroughly.</h3>
		<p>Raise the supremes, suppress the bones of the breast andgarnish the cavity with a cold chicken mousse, combined witha quarter of its volume of foie-gras purée, shaping the latter insuch wise as to reconstruct the bird.</p>
		<p>Cut the supremes into thin, long slices; coat them withwhite chaud-froid sauce, and place them on the mousse,pressing them lightly one upon the other. Deck with piecesof truffle; glaze with chicken jelly; set in a square, entree dish,and surround with melted jelly.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, incrust the dish in a block of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1697" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE à la NEVAStuff the pullet with chicken forcemeat (No. 200), combinedwith foie gras and truffles, cut into dice; poach it in chickenstock and let it cool. This done, coat the piece with whitechaud-froid sauce, decorate with jelly, and leave to set.</h3>
		<p>Set the pullet on a cushion of rice, lying on a long dish.Behind the bird, arrange a fine, vegetable salad in a shell ofcarVed rice, or in a large, silver shell.</p>
		<p>Border the dish with neatly-cut croutons of pale jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1698" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE ROSE de MAIPoach the pullet and, when it is quite cold, raise its supremesand remove the bones of the breast. Coat the carcass with awhite chaud-froid sauce; decorate as fancy may dictate; garnishwith a mousse of tomatoes (No. 814), and arrange the latter insuch wise as to reconstruct the bird.</h3>
		<p>Slice the supremes-, coat them with white chaud-froid sauce;decorate with truffles, and glaze with chicken jelly. Garnishwith the same mousse as that already used for the pullet, asmany small, barquette-moulds as there are chaud-froid-coatedslices, and leave to set.</p>
		<p>Put the pullets on a low cushion of rice, placed on a longdish; surround it with the barquettes of mousse, turned out atthe last moment; set a chaud-froid-coated slice on each bar-quette, and distribute crotitons of jelly over the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1699" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—POULARDE ROSE MARIEHaving poached and cooled the pullet, raise its supremes;cut these into collops, and coat them with white chaud-froidsauce. Trim the carcass, leaving the wings attached; garnish</h3>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>536</p>
		<p>it with very smooth and pink, ham mousse, giving the latter theshape of the pullet, and put to set in the refrigerator.</p>
		<p>Mould in small, oval moulds, as many barquettes of the sameham mousse as there are collops.</p>
		<p>When the mousse in the fowl has properly set, coat it withchaud-froid sauce, prepared with paprika of a fine, tender, pinkshade; decorate according to fancy, and glaze with chicken jelly.</p>
		<p>Set the pullet on a low cushion of rice, placed on a dish;place the barquettes of ham mousse around it; set a collop oneach mousse and a fine slice of truffle on each collop, andborder the dish with croutons of aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1700" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE à la SAINT-CYR</h3>
		<p>Poele the pullet in white wine, and leave it to cool in itscooking-liquor. This done, raise the fillets; cut them intoregular slices; coat them with white chaud-froid sauce anddecorate.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, saute fifteen larks in a mirepoix; remove thefillets of six of them; glaze them with brown, chaud-froid sauce,and decorate them with bits of hard-boiled white of egg.</p>
		<p>With the remainder of the larks and five oz. of foie gras,prepare a mousse, and use the latter for reconstructing thepullet as explained in the preceding recipes. When the moussehas set properly, coat it with brown, chaud-froid sauce.Arrange the chicken fillets, coated with white, chaud-froid sauce,on either side of the mousse; in the middle put the larks’ fillets,coated with brown, chaud-froid sauce, and let them slightlyoverlap one another.</p>
		<p>Set the pullet in a deep, square dish; surround it with melted,chicken jelly; let the latter set, and serve the dish incrustedin a block of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1701" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— POULARDE EN TERR1NE à la QELEE</h3>
		<p>Bone the pullet all but the legs, and stuff it with a forcemeatconsisting of: three and one-half oz. of veal; three and one-halfoz. of fresh pork fat; three and one-half oz. of gratin forcemeat,prepared from fowls’ livers; two tablespoonfuls of brandy; twotablespoonfuls of truffle essence, and the yolk of an egg.</p>
		<p>In the midst of the stuffing, set half of a raw foie gras andone raw, quartered truffle on each side. Reconstruct the pullet;truss it as for an entree; cover it with slices of bacon, and poelein Madeira for one and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>Leave to half-cool in the cooking-liquor; withdraw the pullet;remove the slices of bacon, and put it in a terrine just largeenough to hold it.</p>
		<p>537</p>
		<p>Add a little chicken jelly to the bird’s cooking-liquor, whichshould not have been cleared of grease, but merely strainedthrough a napkin; and pour this sauce over the pullet.</p>
		<p>Do not serve until twenty-four hours have elapsed, and clearof grease as directed under “Poularde au Champagne” (No.1688).</p>
		<p>Serve the terrine in a block of ice, or on a dish with brokenice all round.</p>
		<h3 id="1702" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TERRINE de POULARDE EN CONSERVE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the pullet as explained above, and put it in a boxjust large enough to hold it. Seal up the box; mark the topwith a bit of tin; put it in a stewpan with enough water to coverit, and boil for two hours.</p>
		<p>This done, withdraw the box and cool it, placing it upsidedown, that the grease may be at the bottom and the breastcoated with jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1703" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—AILERONS de POULET à la CARMELITE</h3>
		<p>Poach a chicken &amp; la Reine; let it cool; raise its supremesand leave the humerus bones attached, after having duly clearedthem of all meat; skin the supremes, and coat them with a littlejelly.</p>
		<p>Garnish a timbale, just large enough to hold the two wings,half-way up with crayfish mousse. Upon this mousse, set thetwo supremes, opposite one another, and between them set arow of shelled and trimmed crayfishes’ tails, cooked as forbisque. Cover the whole with a succulent half-set chicken jelly,and place in the refrigerator for two hours.</p>
		<h3 id="1704" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—AILERONS de POULET LADY WILMER</h3>
		<p>Poach three fleshy, spring chickens, taking care to have thesupremes just cooked. Leave to cool, and raise the wings asin the preceding recipe, trim them and coat them with jelly.</p>
		<p>With the meat of three legs, prepare a chicken mousse, andmould it in a dome-mould. When the mousse is set, turn itout on a dish, and place the wings all round, fixing them on themousse, with their points upwards, by means of a little half-setjelly.</p>
		<p>Cover the mousse on top, and the gaps between the pointsof the supremes with chopped truffle and chopped tongue, laidalternately. In the middle of the viousse, set a fine, glazedtruffle, pierced by a small hatclet.</p>
		<h3 id="1705" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ASPIC de POULET à l’lTALIENNE</h3>
		<p>Clothe a border mould with aspic jelly, in accordance withthe procedure described under “Aspic de Homard” (No. 954),</p>
		<p>538</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>and decorate it with large slices of truffles. Fill the mould witha coarse julienne of chicken fillets, salted tongue and truffles,spread in successive layers and besprinkled with cold, meltedaspic.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out the aspic on a very colddish; set a salad “k l’ltalienne” in its midst, and serve aR^moulade sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1706" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— ASPIC de POULET à la GAULOISE</h3>
		<p>Clothe an ornamented mould with jelly, and decorate itsbottom and sides with truffles. Fill it with successive andalternate layers of: aspic jelly, collops of chicken fillets, cocks’combs coated with brown, chaud-froid sauce, fine cocks’ kidneys,coated with white chaud-froid sauce, and slices of saltedtongue cut into oval shapes.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out, and surround with finecroutons of aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1707" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MEDAILLONS de VOLAILLE RACHEL</h3>
		<p>Prepare some chicken supremes as explained under “Chaud-froid F61ix Faure” (No. 1671), and cut them into collops. Trimthese collops with a round, even cutter, and coat them withaspic.</p>
		<p>Prepare a mousse from the meat of the legs. Spread thismousse on a tray in a layer one-third in. thick and leave itto set. When it is quite firm, stamp it out with a round, evencutter, dipped in hot water, and a little larger than the oneused in trimming the collops.</p>
		<p>Set a medallion on each roundel of mousse, fixing it thereby means of a little half-set jelly, and arrange the medallionprepared in this way on a square dish.</p>
		<p>In their midst set a fine faggot of asparagus-heads; fill thegaps betwen the medallions with a garnish consisting of a saladof asparagus-heads with cream.</p>
		<p>Serve on a block of ice or surround the dish with ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1708" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— GALANTINE de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>For galantines, fowls may be used which are a little tootough to be roasted, but old fowls should be discarded. Thelatter invariably yield a dry forcemeat, whatever measures onemay take in the preparation.</p>
		<p>The fowl should be cleaned but not emptied, and it shouldbe carefully boned; the process beginning from an incision downthe skin of the back, from the head to the tail.</p>
		<p>This done, carefully remove the meat with the point of a</p>
		<p>539</p>
		<p>small, sharp knife, until the carcass is quite bare. Cut off thewings and the legs, flush with the articulations of the trunk;remove all the meat that the skin may be quite clean, and spreadthe skin on a clean piece of linen. Trim the meat of thebreast, cut it into pieces one-third inch square, and put theresulting trimmings aside.</p>
		<p>Season these pieces and marinade them in a few drops ofbrandy; prepare other pieces of the same size and length fromfour oz. of truffles; six oz. of salted, fat pork; four oz.of cooked ham, and four oz. of salted and cooked ox-tongue.Then clear the meat of the legs of all tendons; add to it thetrimmings cut from the breast, as much very white veal andtwice as much very fat, fresh pork; season these meats withsalt, pepper and nutmeg; chop them up very finely; poundthem, and rub them through a sieve. Add the brandy in whichthe fillets were marinaded.</p>
		<p>Spread a layer, three in. wide, of this forcemeat along thewhole of the middle of the chicken’s skin; upon this layer offorcemeat set the strips of bacon, fowl, truffle, ham, and tongue,arranging them alternately and regularly; upon them spreadanother layer of forcemeat, equal to the first; then another layerof the various pieces, and finally cover and envelop the wholein what remains of the forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Draw the skin of the fowl over the whole and completelywrap the former round the latter. Carefully sew up the edgesof the skin, and roll the galantine in a napkin, either end ofwhich should be tightly strung.</p>
		<p>With six lbs. of shin of veal, one-half lb. of fresh blanchedpork rind, and the fowl’s carcass, prepare a white veal stock(No. io). When this stock has cooked for about five hours,add the galantine to it, and gently cook the latter for aboutone and one-quarter hours.</p>
		<p>At the end of this time take the galantine off the fire; drainit on a dish, and let it cool for ten minutes; remove the napkinin which it has cooked, and roll it in another one which shouldbe similarly tied at both ends. This done, put the galantine tocool under a weight not exceeding five or six lbs.</p>
		<p>The cooking-liquor, once it has been cleared of grease andclarified as for an aspic (No. 158), constitutes a jelly whichaccompanies the galantine. When the latter is quite cold,remove the napkin covering it, trim it neatly at either end; coatit with half-melted jelly, and dish it on a low cushion of carvedrice. Finally, decorate it as fancy may dictate with pieces ofjelly.</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>540</p>
		<h3 id="1709" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PAIN de VOLAILLE FROID</h3>
		<p>Poele a very tender chicken; do not colour it and have itonly just done. Withdraw it and leave it to cool. Add twotablespoonfuls of strong veal stock and one tablespoonful ofburned brandy to the foeling-liquor.</p>
		<p>Simmer for ten minutes. Strain this stock through asieve, and slightly press the vegetables in so doing, that alltheir juices may be expressed.</p>
		<p>Clear of grease, and reduce until the liquor does not measuremore than two tablespoonfuls. Put it on the side of the fire,add the yolks of three eggs, stirring briskly the while, and add,little by little, six oz. of very good, fresh butter, just as for aHollandaise sauce. Finally, add one and one-half leaves ofgelatine, dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of boiling water, andrub the whole through tammy.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, raise the chicken’s fillets and cut them into wideand thin collops, after having cleared them of skin. Cover eachcollop with a slice of truffle dipped in good, half-melted jelly,and with them line the bottom and sides of a timbale-mould,already clothed with jelly and incrusted in ice.</p>
		<p>Then completely bone the chicken; finely pound theremainder of its meat as well as the skin; rub the whole througha fine sieve, and add the resulting purée to the prepared sauce.Mix the whole well, and fill the mould with it. Allow to setwell, and turn out on a cushion of rice surrounded by finecroutons of jelly.</p>
		<p>N.B.—By substituting young ducks, young pigeons, or somekind of game such as pheasant, woodcock, &amp;c., for thechicken, this recipe may be applied to any piece of poultry orgame.</p>
		<h3 id="1710" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREME de VOLAILLE JEANNETTE</h3>
		<p>Poach a fowl; let it cool; raise its supremes, and cut eachinto four collops, trimmed to the shape of ovals. Coat thesecollops with white chaud-froid sauce, and decorate them withtarragon leaves, blanched, cooled, well-drained and very green.</p>
		<p>Let a layer of aspic jelly one-half in. thick set on the bottomof a timbale or a square dish; upon this layer set some slicesof foie-gras Parfait, cut to the shape of the collops, and placeone of the latter on each slice of the Parfait. This done, coverwith fine half-melted chicken jelly.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, incrust the dish or the timbale in ablock of carved ice.</p>
		<p>541</p>
		<h3 id="1711" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSE de VOLAILLE FROIDE</h3>
		<p>The carefully boned and skinned meat of a poached fowlmay be used in the preparation of this mousse, but a freshly-roasted fowl, scarcely cooled, is preferable; the latter’s flavourbeing more delicate and more distinct.</p>
		<p>The quantities and the mode of procedure for cold fowlmousse are those given under “mousse de tomates” (No. 814).</p>
		<p>The various mousse recipes which I gave for trout (Nos.813 and 815) may be applied to cold fillets of fowl. In this case,the latter may be coated with some kind of chaud-froid sauce,or simply glazed with jelly, and soberly decorated.</p>
		<p>These mousses constitute excellent dishes for suppers, andfrom a very long list of them I may quote: —</p>
		<p>Mousse de jambon au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<p>Mousse de foie gras au blanc de poulet</p>
		<p>Mousse de langue au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<p>Mousse de tomates au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<p>Mousse d’dcrevisses au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<p>Mousse d’airelles ou de canneberges au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<p>Mousse de physalis au blanc de poulet.</p>
		<h3 id="1712" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MAYONNAISE de VOLAILLE</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of a salad-bowl with ciseled lettuce,arranging it in the shape of a dome. Season with a little saltand a few drops of vinegar. Upon this salad arrange the coldcollops of boiled or roast fowl, carefully cleared of all skin.</p>
		<p>Cover with mayonnaise sauce; smooth the latter and decoratewith capers; small stoned olives; anchovy fillets; quarteredhard-boiled eggs; small quartered or whole lettuce hearts.</p>
		<p>Arrange these decorating constituents according to fancy,as no hard and fast rule can be given.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, mix as for a S^Iad.</p>
		<h3 id="1713" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHICKEN SALAD</h3>
		<p>This dish consists of the same ingredients as the precedingone, except for the mayonnaise, which is replaced by anordinary seasoning added just before mixing and serving.</p>
		<h3 id="1714" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PATE de POULET</h3>
		<p>Line a raised-pie mould with patty paste (No. 2359), takingcare to leave a fine crest.</p>
		<p>Bone a fowl weighing about four or five lbs. Set thesupremes (each cut into three collops) to marinade in a glass</p>
		<p>542</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>of brandy, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and five medium-sized peeledtruffles, each cut into four or five thick slices.</p>
		<p>With what remains of the fowl’s meat, as much lean porkand veal (mixed in equal quantities) and twice as much fresh,pork fat (i.e., a quantity equal in weight to all the othermeats put together), prepare a very smooth forcemeat; choppingthe whole first, then pounding it and rubbing it through asieve. Add to this forcemeat a little truffle essence; themarinade of the fillets; one raw egg, and the necessary sea-soning, to wit: salt, pepper, and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of the pie with this forcemeat;on this first layer of forcemeat lay a thin slice of bacon andthick slices of tongue, beef, or ham. Place thereon anotherslice of bacon, followed by a thin layer of forcemeat, a layerof truffle slices, another layer of forcemeat, the collops of fowl,another layer of forcemeat, one more layer of truffles, onemore layer of forcemeat, one more layer of tongue or ham(between two thin slices of bacon); and finally cover the wholewith what remains of the forcemeat and a slice of lardingbacon superposed by a bay-leaf. Now close the pie with acover of the same paste as that already used, carefully sealdown the cover to the crest of the underlying paste, trim andpinch the crest, and deck this cover of paste with imitation-leaves of the same paste.</p>
		<p>Make a slit in the top of the pie, for the escape of steam;carefully gild the cover and the crest, and bake in a moderateoven for about one and one-quarter hours. On withdrawingthe pie from the oven, let it half cool, and fill it with asucculent, chicken jelly. Allow this dish to cool for at leasttwenty-four hours before serving.</p>
		<p>N.B.—With this recipe as model, and by substitutinganother piece of poultry or game for the fowl, raised pies maybe prepared from every kind of game or poultry, except water-game, which only yields mediocre results.</p>
		<p>In the case of game pies, the forcemeat is combined withone-sixth of its weight of gratin forcemeat (No. 202) and anequal quantity of fat bacon is suppressed. The chicken jellyis also replaced by a jelly prepared from the carcasses of thebirds under treatment.</p>
		<p>Dish these raised pies plainly, on napkins, and very cold.</p>
		<h3 id="1714" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—CHICKEN PIE</h3>
		<p>See No. 1660.</p>
		<p>543</p>
		<h3 id="1715" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—DINDONNEAU (Young Turkey)</h3>
		<p>Young turkeys, served as relevds or entries, admit of allthe recipes given for pullets; therefore, in order to avoidunnecessary repetition, the reader is begged to refer to thoserecipes.</p>
		<p>Those most generally applied to young turkeys are the onestermed “k l’Anglaise”—with celery, &amp; la Financffire, k laGodard, and k la Jardiniere.</p>
		<p>In addition to these preparations, there are others whichare better suited and are more proper to young turkeys, andthese I give below.</p>
		<h3 id="1716" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—DINDONNEAU FARCI aux MARRONS</h3>
		<p>Cut open the shells of two and one-quarter lbs. of chest-nuts; immerse them for a few seconds in smoking fat; peelthem, and almost completely cook them in consommd. Thenmix them with two lbs. of very finely-chopped pork, rubbedthrough tammy. Fill the bird with this preparation; trussit, and roast it on the spit or in the oven, basting frequentlythe while.</p>
		<p>Serve with the gravy separately. The latter should besomewhat fat.</p>
		<h3 id="1717" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—DINDONNEAU à la CATALANE</h3>
		<p>Cut up the young turkey as for a fricassee, and fry thepieces in three oz. of butter. When the pieces are nicelybrowned, swill the utensil with one pint of white wine; seasonwith salt and pepper; add a piece, the size of a pea, ofcrushed garlic, and completely reduce. Then moisten withsufficient tomato purée and equal quantities of Espagnole andbrown stock to just cover the pieces.</p>
		<p>Cook in the oven for forty minutes; transfer the pieces toanother dish after having trimmed them, and add one-halflb. of raw, quartered mushrooms, sauted in butter; twentychestnuts cooked in consomnffi; twenty small, glazed onions;five quartered tomatoes, and ten sausages.</p>
		<p>Strain the sauce over the pieces of turkey; complete thecooking for twenty-five minutes, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="1718" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—DINDONNEAU CHIPOLATA</h3>
		<p>This may be prepared in two ways, according as to whetherit be intended for lunch or for dinner.</p>
		<p>(1) Cut up the young turkey and fry the pieces in butteras above. Swill with one glassful of white wine; add a suffi-cient quantity of tomated half-glaze sauce, just to cover thepieces, and cook in the oven for forty minutes.</p>
		<p>544</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the pieces to another stewpan and addthereto twenty small, glazed onions, twenty chestnuts cookedin consomme, ten chipolata sausages, one-third lb. of frizzledpieces of fresh pork cut into dice, and twenty olive-shaped andglazed carrots. Strain the sauce over the whole, complete thecooking and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>(2) Braise the young turkey; glaze it at the last moment,and set on a long dish. Surround it with the garnish givenabove, combined with the reduced braising-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1719" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— DINDONNEAU EN DAUBE</h3>
		<p>Bone the young turkey’s breast, and stuff it, arranging itsmeat as for a galantine, with very good sausage-meat com-bined with a glassful of liqueur brandy per two lbs. of theformer; bacon, truffles; and a very small and red ox-tongue,covered with slices of bacon and set in the centre of thegarnish.</p>
		<p>Reconstruct the young turkey; sew it; truss it, and putit in a terrine just large enough to hold it and its moistening.</p>
		<p>With the bones and the trimmings of the young turkey,two slices of veal, two lbs. of frizzled beef, aromatics, one pintof white wine, and two quarts of water, prepare a brown stockafter recipe No. 9. Reduce this stock to one and one-halfquarts; put it into the terrine; cover and thoroughly close upthe latter with a strip of paste, and cook in a hot oven fortwo and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>Leave to cool in the terrine, and, when about to serve,slightly heat the latter in order to turn out the daube.</p>
		<h3 id="1720" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— BLANC de DINDONNEAU à la DAMPIERRE</h3>
		<p>Remove and bone the young turkey’s legs. With the meat,carefully cleared of all tendons, prepare a mousseline forcemeat;spread the latter on a tray in a layer one-third in. thick, andpoach it. Stamp it out with an even, oval fancy-cutter, aboutthree in. by two in.</p>
		<p>Braise or poele the young turkey’s breast with the greatestcare, keeping it underdone. This done, raise the two supremes,skin them, and cut them into collops of a size that will allowof their being trimmed with the fancy-cutter already used.With a little raw forcemeat, stick a collop to each oval ofpoached forcemeat; then, by means of a piping-bag fittedwith an even pipe, garnish the borders of the collops with thesame forcemeat combined with twice its bulk of chopped saltedtongue. Set the medallions thus prepared on a covered tray,and put them in the steamer that the forcemeat may poach.</p>
		<p>545</p>
		<p>When about to serve, take the piping-bag and make 3fine rosette of a puree of peas in the centre of each medallion.Set these medallions in a circle on a round dish, around alittle bowl of carved, fried bread, garnished with the samepurée of peas.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a velout£ prepared from the bones of thedindonneau.</p>
		<h3 id="1721" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BLANC de DINDONNEAU à la T0UL0U5AINE</h3>
		<p>Poele the young turkey. When it is cooked, raise itssupremes, skin them, and cut them into somewhat thick collops.</p>
		<p>Dish these collops in a circle, and set a collop of foie gras,sauted in butter, between each.</p>
		<p>Pour a Toulousaine garnish in their midst, and surroundwith a thread of light glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1722" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—AILERONS de DINDONNEAU DOR^SA LA Purée de MARRONS</h3>
		<p>The pinions referred to in this recipe are pinions properlyso called; that is to say, they consist of the two last joints ofthe wing. When they are properly prepared, they constituteone of the most savoury luncheon entries that can be served.</p>
		<p>The pinions of large pullets may be treated in this way.</p>
		<p>Clear and singe the pinions, and set them in a butteredsaut^pan, just large enough to hold them. Colour gently onboth sides and drain.</p>
		<p>In the same butter, gently brown a sliced carrot and onion,to which add a few parsley stalks and a little thyme and bay.Set the pinions on these aromatics; season moderately with saltand pepper; cover the saut^pan, and continue cooking gentlyin a very slow oven, basting often the while.</p>
		<p>The dish will be all the better for having been cooked slowlyand regularly. Do not moisten, if possible, or, at the most,only do so with a few drops of water, in order to keep thebutter from clarifying—not an unusual occurrence when theheat is too fierce.</p>
		<p>When the pinions are cooked, dish them radially, and coverthem that they may keep warm. Add a few tablespoonfuls oflight stock or some water to the cooking butter, and set toboil gently for fifteen minutes. When this stock is sufficientlyreduced to only half-immerse the pinions, pass it through afine strainer and clear of some of the grease if necessary;remember, however, that this stock should be somewhat fat.</p>
		<p>Pour it over the pinions, and serve a timbale of a fine pur£eof marrons separately.</p>
		<p>:N N</p>
		<h3 id="1722" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—DINDONNEAU FROID</h3>
		<p>All the recipes given for cold pullets may be applied tothis bird.</p>
		<p>Goose (Oie)</p>
		<p>The principal value of the goose from the culinary point ofview lies in the fact that it supplies the best, most delicateand firmest foie gras.</p>
		<p>Apart from this property, the preciousness of which is trulyinestimable, goose is really only served at bourgeois or familytables.</p>
		<h3 id="1722" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">b—OISON à l’ALLEMANDE</h3>
		<p>Completely bone the gosling’s breast; season it inside, andstuff it with quartered, peeled and cored apples, half-cookedin butter.</p>
		<p>Sew up the openings, and braise gently, basting with fatthe while.</p>
		<p>When the gosling is cooked, dish it and surround it withpeeled apples, cored by means of the tube-cutter, cooked inbutter, and garnished with red-currant jelly. Drain away three-quarters of the grease; swill the braising-pan with the requiredquantity of good gravy for roasts; strain this gravy, and serveit separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1722" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">c—OISON à l’ALSACIENNE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the gosling with very good sausage-meat; truss; colourin butter and focle. Dish and surround with sauerkraut braisedin goose grease, and rectangles of lean bacon, cooked writh thesauerkraut.</p>
		<h3 id="1723" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— OISON à l’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cook one lb. of unpeeled onions in the oven. Whenthey are cold, peel them; chop them, and add to them anequal weight of soaked and pressed bread, one oz. of fresh orchopped sage, salt, pepper and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Stuff the gosling with this preparation; truss it, and roastit on the spit or in the oven.</p>
		<p>Dish it; surround it with the gravy, which should be some-what fat, and serve a sauceboat of slightly-sugared, stewedapples, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1724" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— OISON EN CIVET</h3>
		<p>When killing the gosling, carefully collect its blood. Addthe juice of a lemon and beat it, so as to prevent coagulation,until it is quite cold.</p>
		<p>547</p>
		<p>Cut the gosling into pieces and proceed exactly as for “Civetde Li&amp;vre” (No. 1821).</p>
		<h3 id="1725" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—OISON au RAIFORT</h3>
		<p>Braise the gosling.</p>
		<p>Dish it and surround it, either with noodles with butter, orrice au gras (No. 2252). Besprinkle the garnish with the re-duced braising-liquor, and serve a horse-radish sauce with cream(No. 138), separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Besides these various recipes, goslings may also beprepared like young turkeys, i.e., with chestnuts, h la Chip-olata, en Daube; or with turnips, peas, and “en Salmis,”like Duck.</p>
		<h3 id="1726" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>Foies gras are supplied either by geese or ducks. Goose’sliver is larger, firmer and less readily melted than that of theduck. As a rule the former should be selected in preference,more particularly in the matter of hot dishes. Nevertheless,failing goose’s liver, duck’s liver may be used and with verygood results when its quality is good.</p>
		<p>Foies gras are used in the preparation of terrines, raisedpies, parfaits and mousses, which are among the most delicateand richest of cold dishes.</p>
		<p>They may also be used as a garnishing ingredient, in theform of collops or mousseline quenelles. Finally, they mayalso be served as hot entries.</p>
		<p>When a whole foie gras is to be served hot, it must first betrimmed, studded with raw truffles which have been previouslypeeled, quartered, seasoned with salt and pepper, stiffened ina glassful of brandy, together with a bay-leaf, and cooledin a thoroughly closed terrine.</p>
		<p>When the foie gras has been studded with truffles, wrap itin thin slices of bacon or a piece of pig’s caul, and set it ina thoroughly-sealed terrine before cooking it.</p>
		<p>The best way to cook foie gras, when it is to be servedwhole and hot, is to bake it in a crust of paste that canabsorb the excess of grease produced by the melting of theliver. For this purpose prepare two layers of patty paste, alittle larger than the liver.</p>
		<p>On one of these layers, set the liver wrapped in slices ofbacon; and, if possible, surround it with whole fair-sizedtruffles, peeled. Set half a bay-leaf on the liver; moisten theedges of the paste; cover the whole with the other layer ofpaste; seal it down with the thumb, and fold over the edgesof the paste to form a regular, ornamented border which, besides</p>
		<p>N N 2</p>
		<p>finishing off the preparation, also increases the strength of thewelding.</p>
		<p>Gild the top; streak; make a slit in the top for the escapeof the steam; and, in the case of a medium-sized liver, cook ina good, moderate oven for from forty to forty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve this crust as it stands, and send the garnish separately.</p>
		<p>In the dining-room, the waiter in charge removes the topof the crust, cuts out the liver with a spoon, setting a pieceon each plate, and arranges around each piece the garnishmentioned on the menu.</p>
		<p>I am not partial to the cooking of foie gras in a terrinewhen it is to be served hot. In any case the method describedabove strikes me as being much the best, whatever be thegarnish that is served with the liver.</p>
		<p>I particularly recommend a garnish of noodles, macaroni,lazagnes, spaghetti and even rice, with hot foie gras.</p>
		<p>These pastes should simply be cooked in water and finishedwith cream.</p>
		<p>This accompaniment makes the foie gras much moredigestible and palatable. The best garnishes for hot foie gras,besides those given above, are truffles, whole or in slices,or a Financi&amp;re. In the matter of brown sauces, a Madeirasauce suits admirably, provided it be of great delicacy and notovercharged with Madeira; but a very light* buttered, veal orchicken glaze, combined with a little old Sherry or old Port,is even superior. A Hongroise sauce with paprika or an excel-lent supreme sauce may also be served when the garnish admitsof it.</p>
		<h3 id="1737" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FOIE GRAS CUIT DANS UNE BRIOCHE</h3>
		<p>For this dish the foie gras is cooked differently; the resultis almost the same as that yielded by the crust prescribedabove, except that it is much more delicate. This method,moreover, allows of obtaining a foie gras clear of all grease(the latter being completely absorbed by the paste), and istherefore best suited to cold dishing.</p>
		<p>After having studded the foie gras with truffles and placedit in a closed terrine as above, wrap it in slices of bacon, set itto poach in a moderate oven for twenty minutes, and leave it tocool.</p>
		<p>Line a buttered timbale-mould, of a size in proportion tothat of the liver, with a thick layer of ordinary unsugaredbrioche paste (No. 2370).</p>
		<p>Put the foie gras upright in the mould, which it shouldalmost fill; close the timbale with a cover of the same paste;</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>549</p>
		<p>make a slit in the top; surround the top of the mould with aband of strong, buttered paper, that the paste may be preventedfrom running over, and let it rest for about thirty minutes ina temperature of 86° F. to allow the paste to work.</p>
		<p>Bake in a rather hot oven, until a needle inserted throughthe centre withdraws quite clean.</p>
		<p>Serve the dish as it stands with one of the ordinary foie-gras garnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="1738" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—E5CAL0PES de FOIE GRAS à la PERIGUEUX</h3>
		<p>Cut some slices two and one-half oz. in weight from a rawfoie gras. Season them with salt and pepper; dip in beatenegg; roll in finely-chopped truffle, and saute in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and, in the middle, pour a Madeira sauceflavoured with truffle essence.</p>
		<h3 id="1729" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ESCALOPES de FOIE GRAS à la RAVIGNAN</h3>
		<p>From a layer of unsugared brioche paste, one-third in.thick, cut twenty roundels two and one-half in. in diameter. Onten of these roundels, spread a coating of chicken forcemeat,leaving a margin one-third in. wide of bare paste on eachroundel.</p>
		<p>Set a slice of truffle in the middle, a thick roundel of rawfoie gras on the truffle, another slice of truffle upon that, a coatof forcemeat over the whole; and cover with the ten remainingroundels, after having slightly moistened the latter, that thetwo edges of paste may be sealed. Press with the back of around cutter; gild, and cook in a hot oven for fifteen minutes.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and serve a P^rigueux sauce at the sametime.</p>
		<h3 id="1730" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ESCALOPES de FOIE GRAS à la TALLEYRAND</h3>
		<p>Prepare: (1) a crust made in a flawn-mould, six in. in dia-meter; (2) a garnish of blanched macaroni, cut into lengths ofone in., cohered with four oz. of grated Gruy&amp;re and Parmesancheese per lb. of macaroni, and combined with two oz. ofbutter, four oz. of a julienne of truffles and four oz. of foie grascut into large dice.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle in the crust ten collops of foie gras sautedin butter, alternating them with fine slices of truffle. Putthe macaroni in the middle, shaping it like a dome, sprinklewith grated cheese and glaze quickly.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin, and serve separately a clear chickenglaze, flavoured with truffles and well buttered.</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>55°</p>
		<h3 id="1731" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SOUFFLE de FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>Rub two-thirds lb. of foie gras and three and one-half oz.of raw truffles through a fine sieve. Mix the two purges in abasin, and add two-thirds lb. of raw chicken-meat, poundedwith the whites of four eggs, and rubbed through a finesieve. Season; work the preparation on ice, and add to it,little by little, one-half pint of rich, thick, and very fresh cream,then the well-stiffened whites of four eggs.</p>
		<p>Dish in a buttered souffle saucepan, and poach under coverin the bain-uiarie for from thirty to thirty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve a Madeira sauce, flavoured with truffle essence,separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1732" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TIMBALE de FOIE GRAS à l’ALSACIENNE</h3>
		<p>Prepare an ordinary timbale crust. When about to serve,</p>
		<p>fill it with layers of noodles with cream, separated by alternatelayers of foie-gras collops, sauted in butter, and slices of truffles.Complete with some raw noodles, tossed in butter and dis-tributed over the last layer of cohered noodles.</p>
		<p>Cover the timbale, and serve a supreme sauce, flavouredwith truffle essence, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1733" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TIMBALE de FOIE GRAS CAMBACERFS</h3>
		<p>Line a buttered dome-mould with rings of large poachedmacaroni.</p>
		<p>These rings should be one-fifth inch thick, and should begarnished inside with very black truffle purde, cohered bymeans of a little forcemeat.</p>
		<p>When the mould is lined, coat it inside with a layer ofchicken forcemeat combined with truffle purde. Put the mouldfor a few minutes in a moderate oven, that the forcemeat maypoach.</p>
		<p>Reduce one-third pint of Bechamel sauce, combined withfour to five tablespoonfuls of truffle and chicken essence, tohalf; mix therewith one-half lb. of poached macaroni, cut intolengths of one inch, and four tablespoonfuls of foie-gras andtruffle pur£e, made from trimmings. Mix the whole thoroughly.</p>
		<p>Garnish the timbale with this macaroni, spreading it inlayers, separated by other alternate layers of foie-gras collops,poached in Madeira, and slices of truffle. Cover the garnishwith a layer of forcemeat, and poach in the bain-marie, allow-ing forty-five minutes for a quart-mould.</p>
		<p>Let the mould stand for a few minutes before emptying it;turn ou» the timbale upon a round dish; surround it with a</p>
		<p>border of P^rigueux sauce, and serve a sauceboat of P^rigueuxsauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1734" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TIMBALE de FOIE GRAS MONTESQUIEU</h3>
		<p>Spread a very even layer, one-third inch thick, of chickenforcemeat upon a sheet of buttered paper. Moisten the surfacewith some white of egg; sprinkle with chopped truffle, andpress on the latter by means of the flat of a knife.</p>
		<p>Set to poach gently; cool, and then stamp out with a round,even cutter, one inch in diameter. With the resultingroundels, garnish the bottom and sides of a Charlotte mould,placing their truffled sides against the mould. Then, with theview of binding these roundels together, as they are to con-stitute the outside of the timbale, coat the whole of the mouldinside with some fairly firm chicken forcemeat, combined with aquarter of its bulk of foie-gras puree.</p>
		<p>Fill the mould with a foie-gras Parfait with truffles cut intovery large dice and cohered by means of mousseline chickenforcemeat.</p>
		<p>Cover the whole with a layer of the same forcemeat as thatused for the purpose of binding the roundels, and set to poachunder cover.</p>
		<p>Turn out, following the same precautions as above; sur-round the timbale with a border of nice, pink, Hungarian saucewith paprika, and send a sauceboat of this sauce to the tableat the same time.</p>
		<p>Foie Gras Froid</p>
		<h3 id="1735" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ASPIC de FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>Clothe an even or ornamented mould (fitted with a centraltube) with aspic, and decorate it with poached white of egg andtruffle. Fill it with rows of well-trimmed foie-gras rectangles,or shells raised by means of a spoon dipped in hot water,separating each row with a coat of aspic.</p>
		<p>Except for its principal ingredient, which may vary, thepreparation of aspic is always the same as that described under“Aspic de Homard” (No. 954).</p>
		<p>For the turning out and dishing, proceed in exactly thesame way.</p>
		<h3 id="1736" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FOIE gras gastronome</h3>
		<p>Take a plain foie-gras Parfait, i.e., one without a crust;trim it neatly to the shape of an egg, and completely cover itwith a chaud-froid sauce with paprika. Decorate it accordingto fancy, and glaze it with cold melted jelly.</p>
		<p>Cut out a crust, proportionate in size to the egg, and shape</p>
		<p>55*</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>it like a cushion. Coat it with a chaud-froid sauce of a differentcolour; deck it with softened butter, applied by means of apiping-bag fitted with a narrow, grooved pipe; set it on thedish, and place the foie-gras egg upon it.</p>
		<p>Surround the cushion with fine fair-sized truffles, glazedwith aspic jelly.</p>
		<p>'737—FOIE GRAS au PAPRIKA</p>
		<p>Trim a fine, fresh foie gras; salt it; sprinkle it with acoffeespoonful of paprika; put it into a saucepan with a largesliced Spanish onion and a bay-leaf, and cook in the oven forthirty minutes.</p>
		<p>This done, set it instantly in an oval terrine, after havingcarefully removed every bit of onion; cover it wdth its owngrease; fill up the terrine with jelly, and leave to cool.</p>
		<p>Keep in the cool until ready for serving.</p>
		<p>N.B.—In Vienna, where this dish is usually served as ahors-d’oeuvre, with baked potatoes, the onion is not removed.The foie gras is left to cool in the terrine in which it has cooked,with all its grease, and it is served thus, very cold.</p>
		<p>This piece of information was kindly given to me byMadame Katinka.</p>
		<h3 id="1738" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ESCALOPES de FOIE GRAS MARECHALE</h3>
		<p>From a terrine of very firm foie gras cut the required numberof collops, giving them an oval shape. Make a preparation of“pain de foie gras” (No. 1741) with the remains of the terrine,and cover the collops with the preparation, shaping the latterin a dome upon them. Coat these garnished collops withcream chaud-froid sauce; decorate with a slice of truffle, andglaze with aspic.</p>
		<p>With some foie-gras purée prepare some balls (of the shapeof bigaroons); in the centre of each place a little ball oftruffle in imitation of the stone of the fruit, and coat them witha reddish-brown, chaud-froid sauce. This done, glaze them withjelly.</p>
		<p>Dish the collops round a circular cushion, set upon a verycold dish; arrange the bigaroons in a pyramid on the cushion,and border the dish with fine, jelly croutons.</p>
		<p>*739—MOUSSE de FOIE GRA5</p>
		<p>For the preparation of the mousse, see No. 814. The pro-cedure and the quantities are always the same, and only theprincipal ingredient changes. The moulding is also effectedin the same way in a jelly-clothed and decorated mould, gene-</p>
		<p>rally just large enough to hold the requisite amount for oneservice, or in a silver timbale, incrusted in ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1740" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>I have oftentimes explained that the substance is the samefrom which mousses and mousselines are prepared, and I havepointed out wherein the difference between them lies.</p>
		<p>Just like the other mousselines, those of foie gras are madein egg- or quenelle-moulds, or others of the same kind. Foie-gras mousselines are, according to circumstances, either simplyglazed with aspic, or coated with chaud-froid sauce and dishedin a timbale with jelly. They may also be moulded in littlepaper cases.</p>
		<h3 id="1741" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PAIN de FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>From a cold foie gras, braised in Madeira, cut a few collopsand put them aside. Clear the cooking-liquor of all grease,reduce to half, and add the yolks of four eggs and one-half lb.of butter, proceeding as for a Hollandaise sauce. Completewith a grilled, crushed, hazel-nut, two leaves of dissolved gela-tine, and, when the preparation is only lukewarm, mix there-with (without working the whole overmuch) what remains ofthe foie gras, rubbed through a sieve.</p>
		<p>Spread this preparation in layers in an aspic-clothed anddecorated mould, separating each layer with other alternatelayers consisting of the reserved collops and some slices oftruffle.</p>
		<p>Cover the last layer with aspic, and set the mould in a re-frigerator for a few hours.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out, and border the dish withfine, aspic jelly croutons.</p>
		<h3 id="1742" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PARFAIT de FOIE GRAS</h3>
		<p>Fresh foies gras do not bear transport very well, and, whensent from a distance, often reach their destination tainted. It is,therefore, difficult, whatever care may have been bestowed ontheir preparation, to obtain the results which are achieved bymanufacturers who are renowned for this kind of produce. Con-sequently, it is preferable to buy the Parfait of foie gras ready-made from a good firm rather than to try to make it oneself.</p>
		<h3 id="1743" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PAVE de FOIE GRAS LUCULLUS</h3>
		<p>Let a coat of aspic, one-half inch thick, set on the bottomof a square timbale, and lay thereon a few slices of truffle. Uponthis jelly spread a layer, two-thirds inch thick, of foie-graspur£e, thinned by means of a little melted jelly. When thispur£e has set, lay on it a few foie-gras collops and slices of</p>
		<p>554</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>truffle; cover with aspic, and continue thus with alternatelayers of pur£e, collops, and aspic. Fill up the mould witha layer of aspic jelly; put it in the refrigerator for a few hours,and dish on a block of ice, cut to the shape of a flagstone.</p>
		<h3 id="1744" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TIMBALE de FOIE GRAS TZARINE</h3>
		<p>Line a timbale-mould with ordinary patty paste, and coverthe inside all over with slices of larding bacon. Just in themiddle set a fresh foie gras, seasoned with salt, pepper, andallspice; surround it with quails stuffed with a piece of truffle,and set upright with their breasts against the slices of bacon.Fill up the mould with whole, raw, and peeled truffles; coverthe whole with a round slice of the same bacon; cover thetimbale with a layer of paste, well sealed down round theedges; make a slit in the top for the escape of steam, and bakein a good, moderate oven for one and one-quarter hours.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing the timbale from the oven, pour into itsome succulent veal stock, flavoured with Madeira, and suffi-ciently gelatinous to form a nice jelly.</p>
		<p>Keep the timbale in the cool for one or two days beforeserving it.</p>
		<p>Ducks and Ducklings (Canards et Canetons)</p>
		<p>Three varieties of the duck family are recognised in cookery,viz., the Nantes duck, the Rouen duck, and the different kindsof wild duck. The latter are generally used for roasts and insalmis.</p>
		<p>The Rouen duck is also served more often as a roast thanas an entrde. The characteristic trait of its preparation liesin its being kept very underdone, and it is very rarely braised.It is killed by suffocation, and not by bleeding, which is theusual mode of killing other birds.</p>
		<p>The Nantes duck, which is similar to the Aylesbury one, isnot so fleshy as the Rouen duck, and may be roasted, poeled,or braised.</p>
		<p>'745—CANETON NANTAIS à la CHOUCROOTE</p>
		<p>Take a piece of manicd butter the size of an egg, and insertit into the duckling with chopped parsley and shallots. Trussthe bird as for an entree; brown it in the oven, and put it ina stewpan already lined for braising.</p>
		<p>Moisten, just enough to cover, with white veal stock andRhine wine (in the proportion of two-thirds of the former toone-third of the latter), or ordinary good white wine, andbraise slowly until cooking is completed.</p>
		<p>POULTRY 5 5 5</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, braise in the usual way two lbs. of sauerkrautwith one-half lb. of salted breast of pork.</p>
		<p>When it is three-parts done, drain it, and complete itscooking with one-third pint of veal gravy and one-sixth pintof white wine, until this moistening is completely reduced.</p>
		<p>Set the sauerkraut in a border round a dish, and surroundit with the pork cut into small rectangles. Place the carvedduck in the centre, and coat it moderately with half-glaze saucecombined with the reduced braising-liquor. Send the remainsof this sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1746" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON D’AYLESBURY POfiL&amp; à la MENTHE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the duckling with one oz. of butter combined with apinch of chopped mint, and poele it. Dish it; sw'ill the stew-pan with one-sixth pint of clear, veal gravy and a little lemonjuice; strain, add a pinch of chopped mint, and pour this sauceover the duckling.</p>
		<h3 id="1747" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON MOLIERE</h3>
		<p>Bone the duckling, and stuff it with one lb. of gratin foie-gras forcemeat, combined with two-thirds lb. of good sausage-meat. Set two rows of truffles in the middle of the thickest partof the forcemeat, lengthwise, along the duckling. Reconstruct;sew up the skin, wrap in a serviette, after the manner of agalantine, and poach in a stock made from the carcass.</p>
		<p>Glaze the duckling with some of this stock, strained, clearedof all grease, and reduced. With what remains prepare aMadeira sauce, and add thereto two oz. of sliced truffles.</p>
		<p>Dish the duckling, after having removed all stitches fromit, and coat it with this sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1748" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON BRAISE aux NAVETS</h3>
		<p>Brown the duckling well in butter, and withdraw it fromthe saucepan.</p>
		<p>Drain away the butter; swill with a little white wine; addtwo-thirds pint of brown stock, as much Espagnole, and afaggot; return the duck to this sauce, and braise gently.</p>
		<p>With the reserved butter brown one lb. of turnips, shapedlike elongated garlic-cloves, and sprinkle them with a largepinch of powdered sugar, that they may be glazed to a nice,light brown colour. Also have ready twenty small onions,which should have been gently cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>When the duckling is half cooked, transfer it to anothersaucepan; put the turnips and the onions round it; strain thesauce over the whole, and complete the cooking gently.</p>
		<p>556 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Dish with the garnish of turnips and onions, arranged roundthe bird.</p>
		<h3 id="1749" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON aux OLIVES</h3>
		<p>Prepare the duckling as above, and keep the sauce short andsucculent. A few minutes before serving, add one-half lb. ofstoned and blanched olives. Glaze the duckling at the lastmoment, and dish it surrounded with the olives and the sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1750" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON BRAISE à l’ORANQE</h3>
		<p>This braised duckling must not be confused with roast duck-ling, which is also served “a l’orange,” for the two dishes arequite distinct.</p>
		<p>As in the case of the roast, this duckling may be preparedwith Seville oranges; but, in this case, the sections of orangemust not appear as garnish, owing to their bitterness, and onlythe juice is used for the sauce.</p>
		<p>Braise the duckling in one-third pint of brown stock andtwo-thirds pint of Espagnole sauce, and cook it sufficiently toallow of its being cut with a spoon.</p>
		<p>Clear the sauce of grease; reduce it to a stiff consistence;rub it through tammy, and add the juice of two oranges andone half-lemon to it, which should bring the sauce back to itsoriginal consistence.</p>
		<p>Now add a julienne of the blanched yellow part only of therind of a half-orange and a half-lemon, but remember that theaddition of the juice and rind of the orange and the half-lemononly takes place at the last moment, after which the sauce mustnot boil again. Glaze the duckling, dish it, coat it slightlywith sauce, and surround it with sections of orange, skinnedraw.</p>
		<p>Serve what remains of the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1751" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON aux PETITS POIS</h3>
		<p>Brown in butter six oz. of salted breast of pork, cut intolarge dice and blanched, and fifteen small onions. Drain thepork and the onions, and set the duckling to fry in the samebutter. When it is well coloured, remove the butter; swillwith a little brown stock, and add one-half pint of thin, half-glaze sauce, one and one-half pints of fresh peas, one faggot,the pork dice and the onions, and complete the cooking of thewhole gently.</p>
		<p>Dish the duckling, and cover it with the garnish and thesauce, after having withdrawn the faggot therefrom and re-duced the sauce so that it only just covers the garnish.</p>
		<p>SSI</p>
		<h3 id="1752" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— pAte chaud de caneton</h3>
		<p>Roast the duckling, keeping it somewhat underdone, andcut the whole of the breast into long collops or very thin slices.Line a buttered Charlotte mould with short paste, and coverthe whole of the inside with a layer of gratin forcemeat(No. 202), combined with four tablespoonfuls of very reducedhalf-glaze sauce per one and two-thirds lb. of forcemeat—thenecessary quantity for this pie.</p>
		<p>On the layer of forcemeat arrange a litter of the slices ofbreast; sliced, cooked mushrooms, and slices of truffle; andfill the mould in this way, taking care to alternate the layersof forcemeat, slices of breast, &amp;c. Complete with a coat offorcemeat, upon which sprinkle a pinch of powdered thymeand bay-leaf; close the mould with a thin layer of paste, sealeddown round the edges; make a slit in the top; gild, and bakein a moderate oven for one hour.</p>
		<p>When taking the pie out of the oven, turn it upside-downon a dish; detach the base; cut the latter into triangles, andset these triangles round the pie. Cover the forcemeat, thusbared, with a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira sauce; set a large,grooved, cooked mushroom just in the middle, and surround itwith a crown of sliced truffle.</p>
		<p>Serve a Madeira sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1753" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— BALL0TINE5 de CANETON</h3>
		<p>Bone the duckling, and completely clear the bones of all</p>
		<p>meat.</p>
		<p>Remove all tendons from the latter, and chop it, togetherwith half its weight of veal, as much fresh pork fat, a third asmuch panada (No. 190), the yolks of four eggs, one-half oz. ofsalt, and a little pepper and nutmeg. Pound; rub through asieve, and mix with this forcemeat, three oz. of gratin foie-grasforcemeat and three oz. of chopped mushrooms, sauted in butter.Divide up into portions weighing two oz.; wrap each portionin a piece of the duckling’s skin; envelop in muslin, and poachin a stock prepared from the duckling’s carcass. At the lastmoment, remove the pieces of muslin and glaze the ballotines.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and set the selected garnish, which may beturnips, peas, olives, or sauerkraut, &amp;c., in the middle.</p>
		<h3 id="1754" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON ROUENNAIS</h3>
		<p>Except for the one case when they are served cold “h.la cuiller,” Rouen ducklings are not braised: they are roastedand always kept underdone. When they have to be stuffed,the forcemeat is prepared as follows:—Fry four oz. of larding</p>
		<p>558</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>bacon, cut into dice, with one oz. of chopped onion, and addone-half lb. of sliced ducks’ livers, a pinch of chopped parsley,salt, pepper, and a little spice.</p>
		<p>Keep the livers underdone, merely stiffened; let the wholehalf-cool; pound, and rub through a fine sieve.</p>
		<h3 id="1755" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— A1GUILLETTE5 de R0UENNAI5 à la BIGARRADEPoele the duckling and only just cook it, bearing in mind</h3>
		<p>that twenty minutes is the time allowed for cooking a fair-sizedbird. Remove the fillets lengthwise, each in ten slices, andset the latter on a lukewarm dish.</p>
		<p>Add a few tablespoonfuls of veal gravy to the poeling-Uquor;set to boil for a few minutes; strain clear of grease, and finishas directed under sauce Bigarrade claire (No 31).</p>
		<p>Cover the slices of breast with some of the sauce, and servethe remainder separately. “Aiguillettes” (or thin slices ofbreast cut lengthwise) k l’orange are prepared in the sameway, except that they are surrounded with sections of orange,skinned raw.</p>
		<h3 id="1756" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— AIGUILLETTES de ROUENNAIS aux CERISESPrepare the duckling as above, but add a little Madeira to</h3>
		<p>the braising-liquor. Clear the latter of grease; thicken witharrowroot; strain through muslin, and add one-half lb. ofstoned morello cherries, at the last moment. Set the cherriesround the aiguillettes; coat the latter thinly with sauce, andserve what remains of the latter, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1757" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— AIGUILLETTES de ROUENNAIS aux TRUFFESPoele the duckling, and only just cook it.</h3>
		<p>Add one-sixth pint of Chambertin wine to the poeling-Uquor,and cook therein five medium-sized, peeled truffles. This done,reduce the liquor, clear of grease, strain it, and add it to asomewhat light Rouennaise sauce.</p>
		<p>Raise the duckling’s aiguillettes, slice the truffles, and set ona lukewarm dish, alternating the aiguillettes with the slicesof truffle.</p>
		<p>Coat thinly with sauce, and send what remains of the latterseparately.</p>
		<h3 id="1758" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON ROUENNAIS au CHAMPAGNEPoele the duckling as above.</h3>
		<p>Add one-half pint of dry Saint Marceaux champagne to thepoeling-Uquor; reduce, and complete with one-sixth pint ofthickened, veal stock.</p>
		<p>559</p>
		<p>Strain this sauce through muslin; clear it of grease, andsend it in a sauceboat at the same time as the duckling.</p>
		<h3 id="1759" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON ROUENNAIS EN CHEMISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the duckling with the preparation given under No.1754; truss it as for an entree; insert it into a well-soakedbladder, and string the end of the latter close to the bird’s tail.Wrap the bladder in a napkin, also strung, and poach gentlyfor about forty-five minutes in a very strong brown stock.When about to serve, remove the napkin, and leave the duck-ling in the bladder.</p>
		<p>Serve a Rouennaise sauce as an accompaniment.</p>
		<h3 id="1760" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON ROUENNAIS au PORTO</h3>
		<p>Roast the duckling “en casserole,” keeping it only justdone.</p>
		<p>Swill with one-fifth pint of port wine; reduce to half, andadd this reduced swilling-liquor to one-half pint of ducklinggravy, thickened with arrowroot.</p>
		<h3 id="1761" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON ROUENNAIS à la PRESSE</h3>
		<p>Roast the duckling for twenty minutes, and send it instantlyto the table, where it should be treated as follows :—Remove thelegs, which are not served; carve the fillets into fine slices, laidone against the other on a lukewarm dish.</p>
		<p>Chop up the carcass and press it, sprinkling it the whilewith a glassful of good red wine. Collect the gravy; addthereto a few drops of brandy, and with this liquor sprinklethe slices of breast, which should have been well seasoned.</p>
		<p>Put the dish on a chafer, and thoroughly heat without allow-ing to boil.</p>
		<p>Serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="1762" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CANETON FARCI à la ROUENNAISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the duckling with the forcemeat given under No. 1754,</p>
		<p>and roast it before a fierce fire for from twenty-five to thirtyminutes, according to its size.</p>
		<p>Send a Rouennaise sauce to the table with it.</p>
		<p>If it be served carved, remove the legs, cisel them inside,season them well with salt and pepper, and grill them.</p>
		<p>Cut the fillets into thin slices, set these on either side of along dish, and, in the middle, place the forcemeat withdrawnfrom the inside.</p>
		<p>Set the grilled legs at either end of the dish.</p>
		<p>Roughly chop up the carcass and press it, sprinkling it</p>
		<p>560</p>
		<p>the while with a glass of liqueur-brandy and a few drops oflemon juice. Add the collected gravy to the Rouennaise sauce;coat the slices of breast thinly with sauce, and serve whatremains of the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1763" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SALMIS de CANETON à la ROUENNAISE</h3>
		<p>After having suppressed the clavicle, truss the duckling.</p>
		<p>Put it in a red oven, where it should only stay eight minutes,</p>
		<p>i.e., four minutes each side.</p>
		<p>If possible, let it cool for a few minutes, that it may be moreeasily carved. Take care, also, to wipe it, for, as a rule, thefierceness of the oven blackens it. Remove the legs; ciselthem inside; season and grill them.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle a long, buttered dish with chopped shallots, kitchensalt not too finely powdered, freshly-ground pepper, nutmeg,and allspice.</p>
		<p>Cut the fillets into very thin slices lengthwise, fifteen fromeach fillet, and set them one against the other on the dish.Sprinkle them with the same seasoning as that lying on the dish,except for the shallots.</p>
		<p>Remove the remaining stumps of the wings, as also thesmall, remaining skin of the breast; season both, and set themto grill by the side of the legs. Roughly chop up the carcass;press it while sprinkling it with half a glassful of red wine,and sprinkle the slices of breast with the collected gravy.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, set a few small pieces of butter onthe slices of breast; heat for a moment on the stove, and putthe dish in a very hot oven, or at the salamander, that theglazing may be instantaneous.</p>
		<p>Withdraw the dish the moment the edges of the aiguillettesbegin to curl, set the grilled legs at either end of the dish, thetwo wing-stumps, with the skin of the breast, in the middle, andserve immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="1764" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SOUFFL6 de CANETON ROUENNAIS</h3>
		<p>Poele the duckling, and only just cook it.</p>
		<p>Raise the supremes, and keep them hot, and cut the bonesfrom the carcass in such a way as to imitate a case, as I describedin a number of pullet recipes. With the duckling’s liver, theraw meat of another half-duckling, the white of an egg, andthree oz. of raw foie gras, prepare a mousseline forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Fill the carcass with this forcemeat, shaping it so as to re-construct the bird. Surround it with a band of strong, butteredpaper, so as to avoid loss of shape, and poach gently, undercover, for twenty minutes.</p>
		<p>561</p>
		<p>With some reserved forcemeat, combined with an equalweight of foie-gras purée, garnish some tartlet crusts, and poachthem at the same time as the souffle.</p>
		<p>Dish the piece; surround it with the tartlets; set a collop ofsupreme on each of the latter, and serve a Rouennaise sauceseparately.</p>
		<p>Canetons Froids</p>
		<h3 id="1765" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAN ETON à la CUILLER</h3>
		<p>Braise the duckling with Madeira, and cook it well.</p>
		<p>Put into a terrine just large enough to hold it; cover withthe braising-liquor, strained through a napkin, and combinedwith enough aspic jelly to completely coat the duckling. Leaveto cool.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, clear the surface of grease, first bymeans of a spoon, then with boiling water, and dish on anapkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1766" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON GLAC6 aux MANDARINES</h3>
		<p>Poele the duckling, and let it cool in its liquor.</p>
		<p>When it is quite cold, set it on its back; glaze it with aspicjelly, and place it on a low rice or carved-bread cushion lyingon a long dish.</p>
		<p>Surround it with emptied tangerines, filled with cold moussemade from ducklings’ livers and foie gras. Alternate the tan-gerines with small timbales of aspic, combined with the poeling-liquor and the juice squeezed from the sections of thetangerines.</p>
		<h3 id="1767" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CANETON GLACS aux CERISES</h3>
		<p>Roast the duckling, and keep it underdone.</p>
		<p>When it is quite cold, remove the breast, and remove thebones in such wise as to form a case with the carcass. Cuteach fillet into eight thin slices; coat them with a brown chaud-froid sauce, and decorate with truffles. Fill the carcass witha mousse made from the remains of the meat, the duckling’sliver, and some foie gras, and shape it so as to imitate the con-vex breast of the bird.</p>
		<p>Glaze with aspic, and set in the refrigerator, that the moussemay harden. When the latter is firm, lay the chaud-froid-coated collops upon it, and set the piece in a deep, square dish.Surround with cold, stoned, morello cherries, poached inBordeaux wine, and cover these with an aspic jelly flavouredwith duckling essence.</p>
		<p>o o</p>
		<h3 id="1768" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— AIQUILLETTES de CANETONS à l’^CARLATEPoele a Rouen duckling until it is just cooked, and let it</h3>
		<p>cool in its liquor. Raise the fillets; skin them, and cut themeach into eight thin slices. Coat them with a brown chaud-froid sauce, and decorate with truffles. Prepare an equalnumber of slices of tongue the size and shape of the slices ofduckling, and coat them with aspic.</p>
		<p>With the remains and the meat of the legs, prepare amousse, and pour it into a square or oval silver dish; let it cool,and then set the aiguillettes of duckling and the slices of tongueupon it, alternating them in so doing, and cover the moussewith aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1769" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSE ET MOUSSELINESDE CANETON ROUENNAIS</h3>
		<p>These are prepared with the same quantities as the chickenmousses and mousselines, but they allow of no other sauce thanthe Rouennaise or the Bigarrade, nor of any other garnishesthan sections of orange, cherries, vegetable purges, or creams.</p>
		<h3 id="1770" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSE de CANETON ROUENNAIS</h3>
		<p>With the exception of the nature of the principal ingredient,the preparation, quantities, and moulding of this mousse arethe same as for chicken mousse. The reader is, therefore,begged to refer to No. 1670, which may be applied perfectlywell to Rouen duckling.</p>
		<h3 id="1771" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SOUFFL6 FROID de CANETON à l’ORANGEProceed as for the “Caneton aux cerises,” but with this</h3>
		<p>difference, that the duckling is used entirely for the mousse.</p>
		<p>Serve, similarly, in a square dish, and surround with sec-tions of oranges skinned raw. Cover with an aspic jellyflavoured with the juice of Seville oranges, and combined witha liqueur-glassful of Curasao per pint of jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1772" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TERRINE de CANETON ROUENNAIS à la GELI2EFirst prepare the following forcemeat:—Heat three oz. of</h3>
		<p>fat bacon, cut into small dice, and three oz. of butter in afrying-pan. Throw six fine ducks’ livers (seasoned with saltand pepper, and sprinkled with a pinch of powdered thyme,bay-leaf, and half an onion chopped) into this fat. Toss themover a fierce fire, just long enough to heat them; leave themto cool, and rub them through a sieve.</p>
		<p>Bone the breast of a Rouen duckling and its back as faras the region of the legs, and suppress the tail. Stuff it withthe preparation given above; truss as for an entree, and put</p>
		<p>POULTRY</p>
		<p>563</p>
		<p>it in a terrine just large enough to hold it. Sprinkle it witha glassful of brandy; cover with a slice of bacon, and cook itin the bain-marie, in the oven, and under cover for fortyminutes.</p>
		<p>With the carcass and some strong veal stock, prepare two-thirds pint of excellent aspic, and, when withdrawing theduckling from the oven, cover it with this aspic, and let it cool.When about to serve, remove all grease, first by means of aspoon, and then by means,of boiling water, and set the terrineon a napkin lying on a long dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1773" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TIMBALE de caneton a la voisinRoast a Rouen duckling, and keep it underdone; let it cool,and raise its fillets. With the carcass prepare a Salmis sauce,and thicken it with aspic as for a chaud-froid sauce.</h3>
		<p>Cut the fillets into slices, coat them with Salmis sauce, andleave this to set. Let a thickness of sauce set on the bottom ofa timbale.</p>
		<p>Upon this sauce lay some of the coated slices, alternatingthem with slices of truffle, and cover with a thin layer of aspicjelly. Lay another row of slices of fillet and of truffles, followedas before by a layer of aspic, and continue thus in the sameorder. Complete with a somewhat thick layer of aspic, andkeep in the cool until ready for serving.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This old and excellent cold entree is really only acold salmis. The procedure may be applied to all game suitedto the salmis method of preparation. It is the simplest andcertainly the best way of serving them cold.</p>
		<h3 id="1774" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PINTADES (GUINEA FOWL)The guinea-fowl is not equal to the pheasant from the gas-tronomical standpoint, though it often takes the place of thelatter among the roasts after the shooting season. But, thoughit has neither the fine flavour nor the delicate meat of thepheasant, it does good service notwithstanding. The majorityof pheasant recipes may be applied to it, especially k laBoh^mienne, k la creme, en Chartreuse, en salmis, k la chou-crofite, &amp;c.</h3>
		<h3 id="1775" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PIGEONS and SQUABS (PIGEONS ET PIGEONNEAUX)Young pigeons are not very highly esteemed by Englishgourmets, and this is more particularly to be regretted, since,when the birds are of excellent quality, they are worthy thebest tables.</h3>
		<h3 id="1776" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PIGEONNEAUX à la BORDELAISOpen the squabs down the back; season them; slightlyflatten them, and toss them in butter. They may just as</h3>
		<p>002</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>564</p>
		<p>well be halved as left whole. Dish, and surround with thegarnish given under “Poulet &amp; la Bordelaise” (No. 1538).</p>
		<h3 id="1777" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PIGEONNEAUX EN CASSEROLE à la PAYSANNE</h3>
		<p>Cook the squabs in the oven in an earthenware saucepan.</p>
		<p>When they are two-thirds done, surround them with one andone-half oz. of salted breast of pork, cut into small dice andblanched, and two oz. of sliced and sauted potatoes for eachpigeon. Complete the cooking of the whole gently, and, whenabout to serve, add a little good gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1778" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PIGEONNEAUX EN CHARTREUSE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the Chartreuse in a Charlotte mould, as explainedunder No. 1182. Line the bottom and sides with a layer ofbraised, drained, and pressed cabbages; in the centre set thesquabs, cooked “a la casserole” and cut into two lengthwise,and alternate them with small rectangles of blanched, saltedbreast of pork, and sausage roundels. Cover with cabbages,and steam in a bain-marie for thirty minutes.</p>
		<p>Let the Chartreuse stand for five minutes after withdrawingfrom the bain-marie; turn out on a round dish, and surroundwith a few tablespoonfuls of half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1779" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PIGEONNEAUX EN CRAPAUDINE</h3>
		<p>Cut the young pigeons horizontally in two, from the apexof the breast to the wings. Open them; flatten them slightly;season them; dip them in melted butter, roll them in bread-crumbs, and grill them gently.</p>
		<p>Serve a devilled sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1780" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PIGEONNEAUX EN COMPOTE</h3>
		<p>Fry in butter two oz. of blanched, salted breast of pork andtwo oz. of raw mushrooms, peeled and quartered. Drain thebacon and the mushrooms, and set the squabs, trussed as foran entree, to fry in the same butter.</p>
		<p>Withdraw them when they are brown; drain them of butter;swill with half a glassful of white wine; reduce the latter, andadd sufficient brown stock and half-glaze sauce (tomated), inequal quantities, to cover the birds. Plunge them into thissauce, with a faggot, and simmer until they are cooked andthe sauce is reduced to half.</p>
		<p>This done, transfer the squabs to another saucepan; addthe pieces of bacon, the mushrooms, and six small onions,glazed with butter, for each bird; strain the sauce over the</p>
		<p>POULTRY 565</p>
		<p>whole through a fine sieve; simmer for ten minutes more, andserve very hot.</p>
		<h3 id="1781" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PIGEON PIE</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of a pie-dish with very thin,flattened collops of lean beef, seasoned with salt and pepper,and sprinkled with chopped shallots.</p>
		<p>Set the quartered pigeons inside the dish, and separate themwith a halved hard-boiled egg-yolk for each pigeon. Moistenhalf-way up with good gravy; cover with a layer of puff paste;gild; streak; make a slit in the top, and bake for about one andone-half hours in a good, moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1782" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—VOL au VENT de PIGEONNEAUX</h3>
		<p>Suppress the feet and the pinions; poele the squabs, andonly just cook them.</p>
		<p>Cut each bird into four, and mix them with a garnish “&amp; laFinanci&amp;re” (No. 1474) combined with the poeling-liquor.Pour the whole into a vol-au-vent crust, and dish on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1783" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—C6TELETTE5 de PIGEONNEAU à la NE5LE5</h3>
		<p>Cut them in two, and reserve the claw, which serves as thebone of the cutlet. Flatten them slightly; season, and fry themin butter on one side only. Cool them under slight pressure;coat their fried side, dome-fashion, with some godiveau withcream, combined with a third of its bulk of gratin forcemeatand chopped truffles. Set them on a tray, and place in amoderate oven to complete the cooking, and poach the force-meat. Dish in a circle, and separate the cutlets with collopsof veal sweetbreads, dipped in beaten eggs, rolled in bread-crumbs, and tossed in butter. Garnish their midst with mush-rooms and sliced fowls’ livers, tossed in butter and coheredwith a few tablespoonfuls of Madeira sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="1784" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—COTELETTES de PIGEONNEAUX EN PAPILLOTES</h3>
		<p>Cut the pigeons in two, as above; stiffen them in butter, andenclose them in papillotes as explained under “Cotelettes deVeau en Papillotes” (No. 1259).</p>
		<h3 id="1785" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—C6TELETTES de PIGEONNEAUX à la SEVIGNE</h3>
		<p>Saute the half-pigeons in butter, and leave them to coolunder slight pressure. Garnish their cut sides dome-fashionwith a salpicon of white chicken-meat, mushrooms, andtruffles, the whole cohered by means of a cold Allemande sauce.</p>
		<p>Dip them in beaten egg, roll them in bread-crumbs, andcook them gently in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>566</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Dish them in a circle; garnish their midst with asparagus-heads cohered with butter, and serve a light, Madeira sauceseparately.</p>
		<h3 id="1786" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de PIGEONNEAUX à la DIPLOMATERaise the fillets and slightly flatten them; stiffen them in</h3>
		<p>butter, and leave them to cool under slight pressure. Thisdone, dip them in a Villeroy sauce, combined with choppedherbs and mushrooms, and cool them. Dip each fillet in beatenegg; roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry just before serving.</p>
		<p>Dish in a circle, and in their midst set a heap of friedparsley. Send separately a garnish of pigeon quenelles, mush-rooms, and small, olive-shaped truffles, to which a half-glazesauce flavoured with pigeon essence has been added.</p>
		<h3 id="1787" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de PIGEONNEAUX à la SAINT-CLAIR</h3>
		<p>With the meat of the legs prepare a mousseline forcemeat,and, with the latter, make some quenelles the size of smallolives, and set them to poach. Poele the breasts, withoutcolouration, on a thick litter of sliced onions, and keep themunderdone. Add a little velout6 to the onions; rub themthrough tammy, and put the quenelles in this sauce.</p>
		<p>In the middle of a shallow croustade, set a pyramid of cepestossed in butter. Raise the fillets; skin them, and set them onthe cepes; coat them with the prepared sauce; surround with &amp;thread of meat glaze, and place the quenelles all round.</p>
		<h3 id="1788" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de PIGEONNEAUX à la MARIGNYCut off the legs, and, with their meat, prepare a forcemeat.</h3>
		<p>Poach the latter on a tray, and stamp it out with an oval cutterinto pieces the size of the supremes.</p>
		<p>Cover the breasts with slices of bacon, and poele them,taking care to only just cook them.</p>
		<p>Quickly raise the supremes, skin them, and set each uponan oval of forcemeat, sticking them on by means of a littlegratin forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Put the supremes in the oven for a moment, that thisforcemeat may poach. Dish the supremes round a pyramidconsisting of a smooth pur4e of peas, and coat with a velout6sauce, finished with an essence prepared from the remains andthe poeling-Mquor of the breasts.</p>
		<h3 id="1789" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SUPREMES de PIGEONNEAUX aux TRUFFESRaise the supremes, flatten them slightly; toss them in</h3>
		<p>clarified butter, and set them on a border of smooth forcemeat,</p>
		<p>GAME 567</p>
		<p>laid on a dish by means of a piping-bag, and poached in thefront of the oven.</p>
		<p>Swill the vegetable-pan with Madeira; add four fine slicesof truffle for each supreme, and a little pale melted meat glaze,and finish with a moderate amount of butter.</p>
		<p>Coat the supremes with this sauce, and set the slices oftruffle upon it.</p>
		<h3 id="1790" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSELINES de PIQEONNEAUX</h3>
		<p>à l’EPICURIENNE</p>
		<p>Prepare and poach these mousselines like the chicken ones,but make them a little smaller. Dish them in the form of acrown; set thereon a young pigeon’s fillet roasted, and in theirmidst arrange a garnish of peas with lettuce. Coat with afumet prepared from the carcasses and cohered with a few table-spoonfuls of velout6.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Pigeons and squabs may also be prepared after therecipes given for chicks.</p>
		<p>Relev6s and EntriesGAME</p>
		<p>VENISON and GROUND GAME</p>
		<p>The stag (Fr. Cerf) and the fallow deer (Fr. Daim) supplythe only venison that is consumed in England, where the roe-buck (Fr. Chevreuil) is not held in very high esteem. True, thelatter’s flesh is very often mediocre in quality, and saddles andlegs of roebuck often have to be imported from the Continentwhen they are to appear on an important menu.</p>
		<p>On the other hand, venison derived from the stag or red deerand the fallow deer proper is generally of superior quality. Theformer has perhaps more flavour, but the latter, which is sup-plied by animals bred in herds on large private estates, has noequal as far as delicacy and tenderness are concerned, while itis covered with white and scented fat, which is greatly appre-ciated by English connoisseurs.</p>
		<p>Although these two kinds of venison are generally servedas relev^s, they belong more properly to the roasts, and I shallgive their recipes a little later on. In any case, only half ofthe hind-quarters (that is to say, the leg together with thatpart of the saddle which reaches from it to the floating ribs)is served at high-class tables.</p>
		<p>I shall now, therefore, only give the various recipes dealingwith roebuck, it being understood that these, if desired, maybe applied to corresponding joints of the stag or deer.</p>
		<p>568 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1791" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SELLE de CHEVREUIL ET CUISSOT</h3>
		<p>Saddles and legs of roebuck may be prepared after the samerecipes, and allow of the same garnishes. The recipes forsaddle which I give hereafter may therefore be applied equallywell to legs.</p>
		<p>Whichever joint be selected, it must first be cleared of alltendons and then larded with larding bacon. The last opera-tion is no more essential than is the marinading which inFrance has become customary with such pieces. It might evenbe said with justice that marinading is not only useless, butharmful, more particularly in the case of young animals whosemeat has been well hung.</p>
		<p>Unlike many other specimens of game, roebuck has to beeaten fresh; it does not suit it to be in the least tainted. Ishould like to point out here that game shot in ambush isbest, owing to the fact that animals killed after a chase decom-pose very quickly, and thereby lose a large proportion of theirflavour.</p>
		<p>The saddle of the roebuck generally consists of the whole ofthe latter’s back, from the withers to the tail, in which casethe bones of the ribs are cut very short, that the joint may liesteady at all points.</p>
		<p>At the croup-end, cut the joint on either side diagonally,from the point of the haunch to the root of the tail. Sometimes,however, the saddle only consists of the lumbar portion of theback, and, in this case, the ribs are cut up to be cooked ascutlets.</p>
		<h3 id="1792" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SELLE de CHEVREUIL à l’ALLEMANDE</h3>
		<p>Marinade the saddle for two or three days in raw marinadeNo. 169, and roast it, on a narrow baking-tray, upon the vege-tables of the marinade.</p>
		<p>As soon as the joint is cooked, withdraw it; swill the traywith a little marinade, and almost entirely reduce. Clear ofgrease; add two-thirds pint of cream and one powdered juniperberry; reduce by a third; complete with a few drops of meltedglaze, and rub through tammy.</p>
		<p>Serve this sauce at the same time as the saddle, which seton a long dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1793" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SELLE de CHEVREUIL à la BADEN-BADEN</h3>
		<p>The saddle should be marinaded and well dried before beingset to cook.</p>
		<p>Poele it on the vegetables of the marinade.</p>
		<p>When it is cooked, put it on a long dish, and, at either end</p>
		<p>569</p>
		<p>of it, set a garnish of stewed pears, unsugared, but flavouredwith cinnamon and lemon-rind. Pour one-third pint of gamestock into the tray in which the joint was cooked; cook for tenminutes; strain; clear of grease, and thicken with arrowroot.</p>
		<p>Serve this thickened stock separately, and send some red-currant jelly to the table at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1794" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SELLE de CHEVREUIL aux CERISES</h3>
		<p>Keep the saddle for twelve hours in marinade (No. 169)made from verjuice instead of vinegar. Roast it on the spit,basting it with the marinade, and keep it slightly underdone.</p>
		<p>At the same time, serve a cherry sauce consisting of equalquantities of poivrade sauce and red-currant jelly, to each pintof which add three oz. of semi-candied cherries, set to soak inhot water thirty minutes beforehand.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This saddle need not be marinaded if it be desiredplain.</p>
		<h3 id="1795" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SELLE de CHEVREUIL à la CUMBERLAND</h3>
		<p>Roast it like a haunch of venison, without marinading it.Send it to the table with a timbale of French beans, coheredwith butter, and serve a Cumberland sauce (No. 134) separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1796" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SELLE de CHEVREUIL à la CREOLE</h3>
		<p>Marinade it for a few hours only, and roast it on the spit,basting it the while with the marinade.</p>
		<p>Set it on a long dish, and surround it with bananas tossedin butter.</p>
		<p>At the same time serve a Roberts sauce, combined with athird of its bulk of Poivrade sauce, and one oz. of fresh butterper pint.</p>
		<h3 id="1797" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SELLE de CHEVREUIL à la BEAUJEU</h3>
		<p>Lard and roast it. Set it on a long dish, and surround itwith artichoke-bottoms, garnished with lentil purée, and alter-nated with chestnuts cooked in a small quantity of consomm^and glazed.</p>
		<p>Serve a venison sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1798" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SELLE de CHEVREUIL au GENIEVRE</h3>
		<p>Lard the saddle, and roast it. Swill the baking-tray witha small glassful of burned gin; add one powdered juniper berryand one-sixth pint of double cream. Reduce the cream to half;complete with a few tablespoonfuls of poivrade sauce and a fewdrops of lemon juice. Serve this sauce with the saddle, andsend separately some. hot stewed apples, very slightlysugared.</p>
		<p>570</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1799" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— 5ELLE de CHEVREUIL AVEC SAUCES DIVERSESSaddle of roebuck may also be served with the following</h3>
		<p>sauces:—Poivrade, Venison, Grand-Veneur, Moscovite,Roberts, &amp;c. The selected accompaniment determines the titleof the dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1800" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— NOISETTES ET C6TELETTES de CHEVREUIL</h3>
		<p>The same recipes may be applied to both. Trim them afterthe manner of lamb noisettes or cutlets. They may be mode-rately marinaded, but they may also be used fresh. In thelatter case, fry them in butter over a somewhat fierce fire, likethe lamb noisettes.</p>
		<p>If they have been marinaded, it is better to toss them veryquickly in very hot oil, and then to dry them before dishingthem.</p>
		<p>It is in the dishing only that the noisettes and the cutletsdiffer; for, whereas the latter are always dished in a crown,one overlapping the other, or each separated from the rest bycroutons of bread-crumb fried in butter, the noisettes are alwaysdished in a circle on small, oval croutons fried in butte^ or ontartlet crusts containing some kind of garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="1801" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— COTELETTES de CHEVREUIL CONTI</h3>
		<p>Saute the cutlets in very hot oil; dry them; dish themin a crown, and separate them by similarly-shaped collopsof salted tongue.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with a little white wine; add this liquorto a Poivrade sauce, and coat the cutlets with it.</p>
		<p>Serve a light, buttered pur£e of lentils at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1802" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— C6TELETTES de CHEVREUIL DIANE</h3>
		<p>Spread an even layer, one-third inch thick, of mousselinegame forcemeat on a tray. Poach this forcemeat in a steameror in a very moderate oven, and cut it into triangles equal insize to the cutlets.</p>
		<p>Toss the latter as already explained; dish them in a crown,and separate them by croutons of forcemeat already prepared.</p>
		<p>Coat the whole with poivrade sauce, thinned by means ofa little beaten cream, and garnished with crescents of truffleand hard-boiled white of egg, and serve a purde of chestnutsat the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1803" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— NOISETTES de CHEVREUIL au GENIEVRE</h3>
		<p>Cook the noisettes in smoking oil. Dry them, dish them,</p>
		<p>GAME</p>
		<p>57i</p>
		<p>and coat them with the same sauce as that given under “Selleau Geni&amp;vre” (No. 1798).</p>
		<p>Serve some stewed apples at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1804" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—NOISETTES de CHEVREUIL ROMANOFFCook the noisettes; set them on stuffed sections of cucumber,prepared after No. 2124a, and place a slice of truffle on eachnoisette. Coat with a Poivrade sauce with cream, and servea mushroom pur£e separately.</h3>
		<h3 id="1805" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—NOISETTES de CHEVREUIL VALENCIACook the noisettes, and dish them in a circle, each on around crouton of brioche fried in butter, and coat lightly withbigarrade sauce.</h3>
		<p>Serve a sauceboat of bigarrade sauce and an orange saladat the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1806" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—NOISETTES de CHEVREUIL VILLENEUVECarefully clear the meat of the roebuck of all tendons, andchop it up with a knife, combining with it the while the thirdof its weight of fresh butter, as much bread-crumb, soaked inmilk, and pressed, and one-third pint of fresh cream per lb. ofmeat. Season, divide into portions weighing two oz., mouldto a nice round shape, wrap in pig’s caul, cook quickly at thelast moment, and dish in the form of a crown.</h3>
		<p>Coat with Chasseur sauce, and send a timbale of celerypur6e separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1807" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—NOISETTES de CHEVREUIL WALKYRIE</h3>
		<p>Saute the noisettes in the usual way, and dish them in theform of a crown, each on a small quoit of “Pommes Berny”(No. 2184). On each noisette lay a fine, grilled mushroom,garnished with a rosette of Soubise pur£e, made by means ofa piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe. Pour a little venisonsauce over the dish, and send a sauceboat of it separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Roebuck noisettes and cutlets are still served withpurges of chestnuts or celery, with truffles, cepes, mushrooms,&amp;c.</p>
		<p>The sauces best suited to them are Poivrade sauce and itsderivatives, such as Venison sauce, Grand-Veneur sauce,Romaine sauce, &amp;c., also Roberts sauce Escoffier.</p>
		<h3 id="1808" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CIVET de CHEVREUILFor “Civet de Chevreuil” the shoulders, the neck, and thebreast are used, and these pieces are cut up and set to marinadesix hours beforehand with the aromatics and the same red wineas that with which the civet will be moistened.</h3>
		<p>572</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>When about to prepare the civet, drain and dry these pieces,and proceed exactly as for “Civet de Li&amp;vre” (No. 1821),except for the thickening by means of blood, which the diffi-culty of obtaining the blood of the roebuck perforce precludes.</p>
		<p>This civet, which should be classed among dishes for thehome, is usually served in the form of a stew; for, inasmuchas the final thickening with blood is lacking, it can only bean imitation of the civet. When, therefore, hare’s blood isavailable, it should always be used in finishing this dish exactlyafter the manner of No. 1821—that is to say, the preparationshould be given the characteristic stamp of civet by means ofa final thickening with blood.</p>
		<h3 id="1809" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— BOAR and YOUNG BOAR (5ANGLIER ETMARCASSIN)</h3>
		<p>When the wild boar is over two years of age, it is no morefit to be served as food. Between one and two years it shouldbe used with caution, and the various roebuck recipes maythen be applied to it. But only the young boar less than twelvemonths old should be prepared in decent kitchens.</p>
		<p>The hams of a young boar, salted and smoked, supply avery passable relev£, which allows of varying the ordinarymenu. They are treated exactly like pork hams.</p>
		<p>The saddle and the cushions may be prepared after therecipes given for saddle of roebuck, and the same holds goodwith the cutlets and the noisettes.</p>
		<p>Finally, the saddle may be served cold, in a daube, when itis prepared after No. 1173.</p>
		<p>As the various parts of the young boar are covered withfat, it is understood that they are not larded, nor do theyneed it.</p>
		<h3 id="1810" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— HARE and LEVERET (LlEVRE ET LEVRAUT)</h3>
		<p>As a result of one of those freaks of taste, of which I havealready pointed out some few examples, hare is not nearly sohighly esteemed as it deserves in England; and the fact seemsall the more strange when one remembers that in many of hercounties excellent specimens of the species are to be found.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the purpose for which it is required, alwaysselect a young hare, five or six lbs. in weight. The age maybe ascertained as follows :—Grasp one ear close to its extremitywith both hands, and pull in opposite directions; if the eartear, the beast is young; if it resist the strain, the hare isold, and should be set aside for soups and the preparation offumets and forcemeats.</p>
		<p>GAME 573</p>
		<h3 id="1811" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—LIEVRE FARCI à la PERIQOURDINE</h3>
		<p>Take care to collect all the blood when emptying the hare;break the bones of the legs, that they may be easily trussed;clear the legs and the fillets of all tendons, and lard them.Chop up the liver, the lungs, the heart, and four fowls’ livers,together with five oz. of fat bacon.</p>
		<p>Add to this mincemeat five oz. of soaked and pressed bread-crumbs, the blood, two oz. of chopped onion, cooked in butterand cold; a pinch of chopped parsley,'a piece of crushed garlicthe size of a pea, and three oz. of raw truffle parings. Mixthe whole up well; fill the hare with this stuffing; sew up theskin of the belly; truss the animal, and braise it in white winefor about two and one-half hours, basting it often the while.Glaze at the last moment. Serve the hare on a long dish.</p>
		<p>Add two-thirds pint of half-glaze game sauce to the braising-liquor; reduce; clear of grease; strain, and add three oz. ofchopped truffles to this sauce.</p>
		<p>Pour a little sauce over the dish on which the hare has beenset, and serve what remains of the sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1812" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—RABLE de LIEVRE</h3>
		<p>The French term “rable” means the whole of the back ofthe hare, from the root of the neck to the tail, with the ribscut very short.</p>
		<p>Often, however, that piece which corresponds with thesaddle in butchers’ meat alone is taken, i.e., the piece reachingfrom the croup to the floating ribs. Whatever be the particularcut, the piece should be well cleared of all tendons, and finelylarded before being set to marinade; and this last operation mayeven be dispensed wflth when the “r&amp;ble” is derived from ayoung hare.</p>
		<p>Marinading would only become necessary if the piece hadto be kept some considerable time.</p>
		<h3 id="1813" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—RABLE de LlEVRE à l’ALLEMANDE</h3>
		<p>Set the table well dried on the vegetables of the marinade,which should be laid on the bottom of a long, narrow dishWhen it is nearly cooked, remove the vegetables, pour one-quarter pint of cream into the dish, and complete the cookingof the rable, basting it the while with that cream.</p>
		<p>Finish at the last minute with a few drops of lemon juice.</p>
		<p>Dish the rable, and surround it with the cream stock,strained through a fine strainer.</p>
		<p>574</p>
		<h3 id="1814" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— rAble de lievre au geni'evre</h3>
		<p>Roast it, as above, on the vegetables of the marinade.</p>
		<p>Swill the dish with a small glassful of gin and two or threetablespoonfuls of marinade, and reduce to half. Add one-sixthpint of cream, two tablespoonfuls of poivrade sauce, and fourpowdered juniper berries.</p>
		<p>Strain and serve this sauce separately at the same time asthe Table.</p>
		<h3 id="1815" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CUISSES de LIfeVRE</h3>
		<p>Use the legs of young hares only; those of old animals maybe used for the “civet” and forcemeat alone. After havingcleared them of tendons and larded them with very thin stripsof bacon, treat them like the rable.</p>
		<h3 id="1816" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FILETS de LEVRAUT à la DAMPIERRE</h3>
		<p>Take five leverets’ fillets; contise them with slices of truffle,after the manner directed for “Supr£mes de Volaille k laChevali&amp;re” (No. 1458); shape them like crescents, and setthem on a buttered dish.</p>
		<p>Lard the minion fillets with a rosette consisting of stripsof salted tongue, and set them also on a buttered dish.</p>
		<p>With what remains of the meat of the leverets, prepare amousseline forcemeat, and add thereto some truffle essence andsome chopped truffles.</p>
		<p>Dish this forcemeat, shaping it like a truncated cone twoand one-half inches high, the radius of which should be thelength of a leveret’s fillet.</p>
		<p>Set this forcemeat to poach in the front of the oven.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the fillets and the minion fillets with a little brandyand melted butter; cover them, and poach them likewise inthe front of the oven. This done, arrange them radially onthe cone of forcemeat, alternating the fillets and the minionfillets. Place a fine, glazed truffle in the middle of the rosette,and surround the base with mushrooms, separated by chestnutscooked in consomm£ and glazed, and small onions cooked inbutter.</p>
		<p>Serve a poivrade sauce at the same time, combined with thefillets’ cooking-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1817" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FILETS de LEVRAUT à la MORNAY(Recipe of the Freres Provei^aux)</h3>
		<p>Trim two leverets’ fillets, and cut them into collops, oneinch in diameter and one-third inch thick. Prepare (1) the</p>
		<p>575</p>
		<p>same number of bread-crumb croutons as there are collops, andmake them of the same size as the latter, though half as thick;(2) the same number of thick slices of truffle, cooked at the lastminute in a little Madeira.</p>
		<p>Toss the collops of fillet quickly in clarified butter; colourthe croutons in butter at the same time, and mix the latter withthe collops and the truffles in a saucepan.</p>
		<p>Swill the saut^pan with the Madeira in which the truffleshave cooked; add a little succulent pale glaze; reduce suffi-ciently; strain the sauce through a sieve; finish it liberallywith butter; add it to the sauted collops, and serve the latterin a very hot timbale.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This recipe was given by the Comte de Mornay him-self to the proprietors of the famous Parisian restaurant, andfor a long while the dish was one of the specialities of a houseno longer extant.</p>
		<h3 id="1818" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FILETS de LEVRAUT à la VENDOME</h3>
		<p>After having contised the leveret’s fillets, roll them round abuttered tin mould, and fasten them with a string, that theymay form rings.</p>
		<p>Set to poach. Meanwhile, spread on a buttered tray a layerone-half inch thick of game forcemeat; poach the latter; stampit out by means of an even cutter into roundels of the samesize as the rings, and set one of these on each of the force-meat roundels, fixing it by means of a little raw forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Cut the minion fillets into collops, and quickly toss themin butter with an equal quantity of mushrooms and five oz. ofraw, sliced truffles.</p>
		<p>Swill the saucepan with a little brandy and the poaching-liquor of the fillet-rings; add a little poivrade sauce; finish thissauce with butter, and plunge therein the collops of fillet, themushrooms, and the truffles.</p>
		<p>Set the rings in a circle on a dish, and fill them with thisgarnish. Serve separately a sauceboat of poivrade sauce anda timbale of chestnut purée.</p>
		<h3 id="1819" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES de LlEVRE</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for all other mousses and mousselines,except, of course, in regard to the basic ingredient, which inthis case is the meat of a hare.</p>
		<h3 id="1820" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLE de LlEVRE</h3>
		<p>With one lb. of the meat of a hare, prepare a light mous-seline forcemeat; add thereto the whites of two eggs,</p>
		<p>576 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>whisked to a stiff froth; poach the mousseline in a souffle sauce-pan.</p>
		<p>Cut the hare’s minion fillets into collops, and toss them inbutter at the last moment.</p>
		<p>Cook the souffle in a moderate oven; coat the top lightlywith half-glaze sauce flavoured with hare fumet, and surroundit with the minion-fillet collops, alternated with slices oftruffles.</p>
		<p>The minion-fillet collops and the slices of truffles may beadded to the sauce, and this garnish is served separately inanother timbale.</p>
		<p>18ai— CIVET de LIEVRE</p>
		<p>Skin and clean the hare, taking care to collect all the bloodin so doing. Put the liver aside, after having carefully freedit from the gall-bladder, as also from those portions touchingthe latter.</p>
		<p>Cut up the hare, and put the pieces in a basin with a fewtablespoonfuls of brandy and an equal quantity of olive oil,salt, pepper, and an onion cut into thin roundels. Cover andleave to marinade for a few hours in the very red wine usedfor the moistening. Fry one-half lb. of lean bacon, cut intolarge dice, in butter, and drain it as soon as it is brown. Inthe same butter brown two fair-sized, quartered onions; addtwo tablespoonfuls of flour, and cook this roux gently untilit acquires a golden tinge. Put the pieces of hare into thisroux, after having well dried them, and stiffen them.</p>
		<p>Moisten with the wine used for the marinade. Add a largefaggot, in which place a garlic clove; cover, and leave to cookgently on the side of the stove.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, thicken the civet with thereserved blood, which should be gradually heated, and mixtherewith a few tablespoonfuls of sauce. Then transfer thepieces of hare, one by one, to another saucepan with the friedpieces of bacon, twenty small, glazed onions, and twenty cookedmushrooms.</p>
		<p>Strain the sauce over the whole through a strainer.</p>
		<p>Dish in a warm timbale, and surround with heart-shapedcroMons fried in butter at the last moment.</p>
		<p>Cold Preparations of Hare1823—liEvre en daube</p>
		<p>Take a fresh hare, and bone it from the back without empty-ing it, that the skin of the belly may be untouched.</p>
		<p>Detach the shoulders and the legs; do not touch the head;</p>
		<p>GAME</p>
		<p>577</p>
		<p>season with salt and pepper; sprinkle with a few drops ofbrandy, and leave to marinade. With the hare’s liver, somefat bacon, and some truffle parings, prepare a gratin force-meat. Prepare another forcemeat with the meat of the shouldersand the legs, an equal weight of fat bacon, one egg, a pinch ofwild thyme, salt, pepper, spices, and the brandy of the marin-ade. Rub this forcemeat through a sieve, and add to it thegratin forcemeat, one-half lb. of fat bacon, and five oz. oftruffles cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Fill the boned hare with this preparation; sew it up, andtie the head to the back in such wise as to give the piece theappearance of the animal at rest.</p>
		<p>Wrap it in slices of bacon, and set it in a terrine lined withthe latter; sprinkle with a glassful of brandy, and place inthe oven for thirty minutes with lid off.</p>
		<p>Then pour into the terrine a fumet prepared with red winefrom the hare’s bones; cover, and then cook in the oven gentlyfor three hours.</p>
		<p>Leave to half-cool; drain away the cooking-liquor, andcarefully remove the slices of bacon. Strain the cooking-liquorthrough muslin; return it to the terrine, and fill up the latterwith savoury jelly.</p>
		<p>Keep in the cool for two hours before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="1823" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PAIN de LlfeVRE</h3>
		<p>This u Pain” is prepared according to No. 1689, and it maybe served in “Belle-vue,” after the manner described for coldpieces prepared in this way.</p>
		<h3 id="1824" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PATE de LIEVRE</h3>
		<p>Clear the fillets, the minion fillets, and the legs of alltendons; moderately lard them; season them; set them in adish with an equal quantity of truffles and fat bacon strips;sprinkle with some brandy, and leave to marinade for onehour. With what remains of the meat, some fillets of vealand pork, in the proportion of six oz. per lb. of hare; fresh,fat bacon in the proportion of one and one-half lbs. per lb. ofhare; and spiced salt, prepare a forcemeat, and finish it withone egg and three tablespoonfuls of brandy per lb. of force-meat.</p>
		<p>Rub through tammy, and add a portion of the hare’s blood.</p>
		<p>Line a round or oval buttered mould with raised-pie paste,and completely cover the paste with slices of bacon. Then coatinside with forcemeat, and fill up the mould with alternate layersof forcemeat, hares’ fillets, truffle, and fat bacon strips.</p>
		<p>p P</p>
		<p>578</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Finish with a layer of forcemeat; cover with a slice ofbacon; sprinkle a pinch of powdered thyme and bay over thelatter; close the pie with a layer of paste, which should besealed down round the moistened edges; pinch the crest insideand out, and finish off the pie by means of imitation leavesmade from paste.</p>
		<p>Gild; bake in a moderate oven, and, when the pie is almostcold, pour some jelly flavoured with hare fumet into it.</p>
		<h3 id="1835" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TERRINE de LIEVRE</h3>
		<p>A “Terrine” or Patty is only a pie without a crust, and itallows of the same forcemeat and of the same garnish of baconstrips as the latter. The terrine should first be lined withslices of bacon, whereupon it is garnished like the pie withalternate layers of forcemeat, bacon strips, hares’ fillets, andtruffles.</p>
		<p>Cover with a slice of bacon; sprinkle the centre of thelatter with a little powdered thyme and bay, and a little spice.Put the lid on the terrine, place it in a saucepan containing alittle water, and set it to cook in the oven.</p>
		<p>The time allowed for cooking is naturally subject to thesize of the terrine. It is known to be quite cooked when thegrease which rises to the surface is quite clear.</p>
		<p>As long as this grease is turbid, raw juices are still issuingfrom the forcemeat and the garnish inside. Another methodof telling is by the -insertion of a needle. If the latter with-draws evenly heated throughout its length, the terrine is cooked.</p>
		<p>If the patty is to be served immediately, add some aspic toit when it is just tepid, and set it to cool under slight pressure.When quite cold, clear it of grease; trim its surface, and cutit up in the utensil.</p>
		<p>If it is to be served whole and presented, set it to cool undergreater pressure; turn it out, and trim it all round. This done,cause a layer of jelly to set on the bottom of the terrine; returnthe trimmed patty to the latter, and surround it with meltedaspic jelly.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn it out after the manner of anaspic; set it on a long dish, and border the latter with jellycroutons.</p>
		<p>If it have to be kept some time, proceed as above, but uselard instead of aspic, and keep it well covered and in the cool.</p>
		<h3 id="1826" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—YOUNG WILD RABBIT (LAPEREAUX)</h3>
		<p>Use the w’ild rather than the tame young rabbit, and testits age after the manner described in regard to the hare, and</p>
		<p>GAME 579</p>
		<p>also by means of a little lentil-shaped bone, which is to befound in the region of the patella.</p>
		<p>As the wild rabbit ages, this bone shrinks and finally com-bines with the other bones of the articulation.</p>
		<p>When the wild rabbit is old, it is tough, and can only beused for stock or forcemeats.</p>
		<p>All the recipes given for “Poulet Saut6,” and those givenfor hare, may be applied to wild rabbit; the reader is, therefore,begged to refer to these.</p>
		<h3 id="1827" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FEATHERED GAME</h3>
		<p>Feathered game comprises all esculent birds that live infreedom.</p>
		<p>The number of species involved, therefore, is considerable,but from the culinary standpoint they may be grouped intoten principal classes, which are :—</p>
		<p>1. The various pheasants, grey and red partridges, the Te-tras Californias.</p>
		<p>2. The hazel-hen, grouse, prairie fowls, ganga, sand-grouse,</p>
		<p>3. The various wild ducks and teals.</p>
		<p>4. The woodcocks and snipes.</p>
		<p>5. The various plovers, lapwings, sandpipers, water-rails,water-hens.</p>
		<p>6. The quails, land-rails, Virginia quails.</p>
		<p>7. The various thrushes, Corsican blackbirds.</p>
		<p>8. The various larks.</p>
		<p>9. The warblers.</p>
		<p>10. The ortolans.</p>
		<p>The birds of Classes 1 and 4 are better high—that is tosay, they should be hung for a few days, before being plucked,in a moderate draught, that they may begin to decompose, andthat the particular flavour of their flesh may be accentuated, aprocess which increases their culinary value. Whateveropinion may be held in regard to the gaminess of these birds,one thing is quite certain—namely, that the meat of a freshpheasant and that of a high one are two totally different things.When fresh, the meat is flavourless, whereas when it is reason-ably high it is tender, full of taste, and of an incomparableflavour.</p>
		<p>Formerly, it was the custom to lard the birds of Class t,especially when they were to be roasted. But this practiceshould be resolutely discarded, for, if the bird be young, itcan only impair the latter’s flavour, and, if it be old, it cannotpossibly restore those qualities to it which it has already lost.</p>
		<p>p p 2</p>
		<p>580</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Besides, an old bird should never be served; it ought onlyto be used in the preparation of game stock or forcemeats.</p>
		<p>The birds belonging to the remaining classes are preparedfresh; or, if it be thought necessary to let them hang for afew days, at least they should not be allowed to get high, moreparticularly the aquatic ones, because gaminess is, if anything,deleterious to the flavour of their flesh.</p>
		<h3 id="1828" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PHEASANT (FAISAN)</h3>
		<p>When this bird is young, its legs are grey and the ventralend of the sternum is tender and flexible. But with pheasants,as with partridges, an infallible sign of youth may be discoveredat the extremity of the last large feather in the wing. If thisfeather be pointed, the bird is young; if it be round, the reverseis the case.</p>
		<h3 id="1829" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la MODE D’ALCANTARA</h3>
		<p>This recipe comes from the famous Alcantara convent. His-tory tells us that at the beginning of the Portuguese campaignin 1807 the convent’s library was pillaged by Junot’s soldiers,and its precious manuscripts were used in the making of cart-ridges.</p>
		<p>Now it happened that an officer of the commissariat whowas witnessing the event found, among a collection of recipesselected by the monks, the particular one now under our notice,which was applied only to partridges.</p>
		<p>It struck him as interesting, and after trying it when he re-turned to France in the following year, he surrendered it tothe Duchess of Abrant&amp;s, who noted it in her memoirs.</p>
		<p>It represents, perhaps, the only good thing the Frenchderived from that unfortunate campaign, and it would tend toprove that foie gras and truffles, which had been known forso long in Languedoc and Gascony, were also known in Estre-madura, where, even at the present day, tolerably good trufflesare to be found.</p>
		<p>The procedure is as follows :—</p>
		<p>Empty the pheasant from the front; bone its breast, and stuffit with fine ducks’ foies gras, mixed with quartered truffles,cooked in port wine.</p>
		<p>Marinade the pheasant for three days in port wine, takingcare that it be well covered therewith. This done, cook it “encasserole” (the original recipe says on the spit, but the sauce-pan is more suitable). Reduce the port wine of the marinade;add to it a dozen medium-sized truffles; set the pheasant onthese truffles, and heat for a further ten minutes.</p>
		<p>GAME</p>
		<p>581</p>
		<p>N.B.—This last part of the recipe may be advantageouslyreplaced by the la Souvaroff” treatment—that is to say,having placed the pheasant and the truffles in a terrine, sprinklethem with the reduced port combined with slightly butteredgame glaze; then hermetically seal down the lid of the terrine,and complete the cooking in the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="1830" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN à l’ANGOUMOISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pheasant with a preparation consisting of two-thirds lb. of very fresh pork fat, rubbed through a sieve; fouroz. of raw, peeled, and quartered truffles, and four oz. of finechestnuts, cooked in consomm£.</p>
		<p>This preparation, which should be seasoned as for theordinary truffling (No. 1956), ought to be quite cold wheninserted into the pheasant.</p>
		<p>Wrap the bird in slices of bacon; roast it gently for three-quarters of an hour, and take care to remove the slices of baconseven or eight minutes before the cooking is completed, thatthe outside of the piece may be coloured.</p>
		<p>Set on a long dish, and serve a P^rigueux sauce at the sametime.</p>
		<h3 id="1831" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN à la BOHEMIENNE</h3>
		<p>Season a small foie gras with salt and paprika; stud it withraw quartered truffles, and poach it in Madeira for twentyminutes.</p>
		<p>When it is cold, insert it into the pheasant, which shouldbe high. Truss the bird, and cook it in butter in a sauce-pan or a cocotte for forty-five minutes. When about to serve,remove some of the butter used in cooking; sprinkle thepheasant with a glassful of burnt brandy, and add a few table-spoonfuls of reduced game gravy to the cooking-liquor.</p>
		<p>Serve the pheasant in its cooking utensil.</p>
		<h3 id="1832" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN EN CASSEROLE</h3>
		<p>Truss the pheasant as for an entr4e, and poele it in butteronly. This done, swill the saucepan with a few drops of brandyand a tablespoonful of game gravy.</p>
		<p>Cover the utensil, and serve the dish burning hot.</p>
		<h3 id="1833" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN EN COCOTTE</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for pheasant “en casserole,” and, whenthe cooking is two-thirds done, surround it with a garnish ofsmall onions cooked in butter; small, cooked mushroom-headsand olive-shaped truffles, the latter taking the place of the</p>
		<p>582</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>potatoes, which are one of the garnishing ingredients of fowls“en cocotte.”</p>
		<h3 id="1834" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN EN CHARTREUSE</h3>
		<p>Parboil a fine, round-headed, quartered cabbage, and braiseit as directed under No. 2100, adding thereto an old, oven-browned pheasant.</p>
		<p>The chartreuse may be made with the pheasant kept wholeor cut into pieces, but in any case, roasted or poeled, it shouldbe very tender and only just cooked. The old pheasant put inwith the cabbage only serves in imparting its flavour to thelatter, but it must not and cannot be used for the chartreuse.</p>
		<p>If the chartreuse be made with a cut-up pheasant, proceedas in the case of No. 1778. If whole, line an oval mouldchartreuse-fashion; coat the inside with a portion of the braisedcabbage, which should be slightly pressed; set the pheasant,breast undermost, in the mould; cover it with what remainsof the cabbage, and then turn it out on a dish.</p>
		<p>Send a sauceboat of excellent half-glaze, flavoured withpheasant fumet, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1835" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la CHOCCROUTE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the sauerkraut after No. 2097, and bear in mindthat when it is specially prepared to accompany a pheasant, itis considerably improved by being braised with foie-gras fat.</p>
		<p>Poele a very tender pheasant, and only just cook it. Laythe well-drained sauerkraut on a long dish; set the pheasantupon it, and surround it with a border consisting of rectanglesof bacon, cooked in the sauerkraut.</p>
		<p>Serve separately the poeling-liquor combined with a littlegame fumet, strained, and kept somewhat greasy.</p>
		<h3 id="1836" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Cook the pheasant in butter, in a saucepan, with a medium-sized, quartered onion. When the cooking is three-parts done,sprinkle the bird with one-quarter pint of cream (sour if pos-sible), or with ordinary cream, acidulated by means of a fewdrops of lemon juice.</p>
		<p>Finish the cooking, basting the piece the while with creamand serve in the saucepan.</p>
		<h3 id="1837" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN DEMIDOFF</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as directed under “Poulet h la Demidoff”(No. 1464).</p>
		<p>GAME 583</p>
		<h3 id="1838" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN à la GEORGIENNE</h3>
		<p>Truss the pheasant as for an entree, and put it into a sauce-pan with thirty fresh, halved, and well-peeled walnuts; the juiceof two lbs. of grapes and of four oranges, pressed on a sieve;a wineglassful of Malmsey wine; a glassful of strong, greentea; one and one-half oz. of butter, and the necessary seasoning.</p>
		<p>Poach the pheasant in this preparation for about thirtyminutes, and colour it when it is almost cooked.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dish it and surround it with freshwalnuts.</p>
		<p>Strain the cooking-liquor through a napkin; add theretoone-third pint of game Espagnole, and reduce to half.</p>
		<p>Slightly coat the pheasant and its garnish with the sauce,and serve what remains of the latter separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1839" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN GRILLE DIABLE</h3>
		<p>For this preparation only young pheasants are used;although, provided they be tender, adult pheasants will answerthe purpose. The procedure is precisely the same as that de-scribed under “Poulet Grille” (No. 1636).</p>
		<h3 id="1840" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN KOTSCHOUBEY</h3>
		<p>Cook the pheasant “en casserole,” and add to it, when itis almost done, two oz. of fine, raw truffle slices, and a littleexcellent game glaze, clear and well buttered.</p>
		<p>Serve the following garnish separately :—Fry in butter fouroz. of blanched, fresh breast of bacon, cut into dice. Whenthe pieces are properly frizzled, add to them one lb. of freshly-cooked, well-drained, uncooled, and roughly-chopped Brusselssprouts. Add two oz. of fresh butter, a little pepper and gratednutmeg, and stew gently for one-half hour, that the garnish mayjust be ready in time for dishing.</p>
		<h3 id="1841" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN à la NORMANDE</h3>
		<p>Colour the pheasant in butter.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile quarter, peel, mince, and slightly toss in buttersix medium-sized apples.</p>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of a terrine with a layer of these apples;set the browned pheasant thereon; surround it with whatremains of the apples; sprinkle it with a few tablespoonfulsof fresh cream; cover the terrine, and cook in the oven for fromtwenty to twenty-eight minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation in the terrine,</p>
		<h3 id="1842" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la PERIGUEUX</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pheasant with truffles, proceeding as for ordinarytruffling (No. 1956). Poele it in Madeira; dish, and surroundit with a border of quenelles consisting of truffled game force-meat, moulded by means of a coffeespoon, and poached at thelast moment.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a P^rigueux sauce combined with thereduced poeling-liquor, cleared of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1843" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Poele the pheasant, and dish it on a low crodton, carvedfrom a sandwich-loaf and fried in butter.</p>
		<p>Surround it with small, decorated, round game quenelles;large, grooved, cooked mushrooms; and cocks’ kidneys; allthree arranged alternately.</p>
		<p>Serve separately a Salmis sauce, flavoured with truffleessence, and combined with the strained and reduced poeling-liquor, cleared of all grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1844" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FAISAN à la SAINTE-ALLIANCE</h3>
		<p>Bone two woodcocks, and put their livers and intestinesaside.</p>
		<p>Chop up their meat, together with a quarter of its weightof poached and cooled beef-marrow, and as much fresh, fatbacon; salt, pepper, and herbs. Add to this hash six oz. ofraw, peeled, and quartered truffles, slightly cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>Stuff the pheasant with this preparation; truss it; wrap itin slices of bacon, and keep it in the cool for twenty-four hours,that the aroma of the truffles may be concentrated.</p>
		<p>Roast the pheasant on the spit, or, if in the oven, set it ona somewhat high stand in a baking-pan. Cut a large croutonfrom a sandwich-loaf, and fry it in clarified butter.</p>
		<p>Pound the woodcocks’ livers and intestines with an equalweight of grated fresh fat bacon, the well-washed fillets ofan anchovy, one oz. of butter, and one-half oz. of raw truffle.When this forcemeat is very smooth and all its ingredientsthoroughly mixed, spread it over the fried croutons.</p>
		<p>When the pheasant is two-thirds cooked, set this coatedcrodton under the bird in such wise as to allow the juices escap-ing from the latter to drop upon the crouton. Complete thecooking, and dish the pheasant on the crodton. Surround withslices of bitter orange, and send the gravy separately.</p>
		<p>When serving, accompany each piece of pheasant with aslice of orange and a small slice of the coated crouton.</p>
		<p>GAME</p>
		<p>585</p>
		<h3 id="1845" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN SOUVAROFF</h3>
		<p>Cook six fair-sized truffles for five minutes in a glassful ofMadeira and an equal quantity of light meat glaze. Withdrawthe truffles and put them in the terrine in which the pheasantwill complete its cooking.</p>
		<p>Cut one-half lb. of foie gras into large dice; stiffen thesein the truffles’ cooking-liquor, and stuff the pheasant therewith.Truss the latter; wrap it in slices of bacon, and two-thirdspoele it.</p>
		<p>This done, put it into the terrine containing the truffles; addthe poeling-liquor, a small glassful of Madeira, and the samequantity of game gravy; hermetically close the terrine, andcontinue cooking for about a quarter of an hour.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1846" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES, C6TELETTES ET FILETS de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Pheasant Supremes, Cutlets and Fillets, allow of the samegarnishes as those of fowl. But, whereas in the case of thelatter, they are raised raw, and then poached, my advice inregard to pheasant is, that it should be previously roasted orpoeled, (keeping it just underdone) and that the supremes beonly raised at the last moment.</p>
		<p>By this means, a much better result is obtained than bythe poaching of raw fillets; which, once cooked, are gene-rally dry if they have to wait but a few seconds.</p>
		<p>I also advise, when the garnish consists only of foie-grascollops and truffles (as in the case of the Rossini garnish), thesending separately of a small timbale of noodles with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1847" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SALMIS de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Salmis is perhaps the most delicate and most perfect ofthe game preparations bequeathed to us by old-fashionedcookery. If it be less highly esteemed nowadays, it is owingto the fact that this recipe has been literally spoiled by thehaphazard fashion in which it has been applied right and leftto game already cooked, and cooked again for the purpose.</p>
		<p>But the Salmis given above may always be included in anymenu, however sumptuous. It is applied more particularly togame of the 1st and 2nd classes, which should be somewhathigh when treated.</p>
		<p>The recipe I give may be applied to all the birds in the twoclasses referred to.</p>
		<p>Roast the pheasant, keeping it moderately underdone.Quickly cut it into eight pieces, thus: two legs, two wings(separated from the pinions), and the breast cut into four length-</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>586</p>
		<p>wise. Skin the pieces; trim them neatly, and keep them at atemperate heat in a covered vegetable-pan, with a few drops ofburnt brandy and a little clear melted meat glaze.</p>
		<p>Pound the carcass and the trimmings, and add to them halfa bottleful of red wine (almost entirely reduced), three choppedshallots and a few mignonette pepper. Add one-quarter pintof good game Espagnole sauce; cook for ten minutes; rubthrough a sieve, pressing well the while, and then strain througha strainer.</p>
		<p>Reduce this sauce to about one-third, and despumate it;strain it once more through a close strainer; add a small quan-tity of butter, and pour it over the pieces of pheasant, to whichadd a fine, sliced truffle and six grooved mushroom-heads.</p>
		<p>I advise the discarding of the old method of dishing upona cushion of bread fried in butter, as also of the triangularcroutons fried in butter and coated with gratin forcemeat, whichusually accompanied the Salmis.</p>
		<p>A speedy preparation and a simple method of dishing, whichfacilitate the service and allow of the Salmis being eaten hot,are the only necessary conditions. Moreover, the goodness ofthe preparation is such as to be independent of a fantasticmethod of dishing.</p>
		<h3 id="1848" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SAUTE de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Unless it be prepared with the greatest care, sauted pheasantis always dry. I therefore do not recommend it; but, shouldit be necessary to make a dish of it, care should be observed inselecting a young, plump bird. It should be cut up like afowl, cooked in butter on a moderate fire and kept somewhatunderdone.</p>
		<p>Dish it after the manner of a “poulet sauffl , v and cover it.Swill the saufflpan and prepare a sauce after the recipe incommon use.</p>
		<p>This sauce must always be short, and it should be pouredover the pheasant just before serving it.</p>
		<h3 id="1849" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PATE CHAUD de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>The preparation of hot, raised pheasant pies is the same asusual; the ingredients alone changing. The reader will, there-fore, kindly refer to “Pat6 chaud de Canard” (No. 1752), andduly note the following modifications: —</p>
		<p>(1) Use a gratin forcemeat (No. 202) prepared from gamelivers and meat.</p>
		<p>(2) Roast the pheasant, keeping it underdone, and mix thepieces of cooked mushroom with the sliced truffles.</p>
		<p>(3) Accompany the pie by a Salmis sauce, prepared fromthe pheasant’s carcass and remains.</p>
		<h3 id="1850" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>As already stated in various parts of this work, the con-stituents and their quantities are the same for mousses andmousselines, and but for the basic ingredient, which is pheasantin this case, the procedure does not differ from that alreadydescribed.</p>
		<p>The base of the sauces served with these mousses and mous-selines is a fumet made from the carcasses and remains.</p>
		<h3 id="1851" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SOUFFLE de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Prepare a very light, mousseline forcemeat of pheasant.</p>
		<p>Set in a buttered souffle saucepan, and cook in a moderateoven.</p>
		<p>Send a fine, half-glaze sauce, flavoured with game essence,at the same time.</p>
		<p>Cold Pheasant</p>
		<h3 id="1852" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN à la BOH^MIENNE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Faisan k la Boh^mienne” hot (No. 1831).Cook it in an earthenware terrine, and add thereto, at the sametime as the prescribed brandy, enough succulent, savoury jellyto fill up the terrine.</p>
		<p>Leave to cool for a day or two, and, when about to serve,remove the grease that has settled on the surface, by means ofa spoon. Remove the last vestiges of grease by repeatedscaldings; carefully wipe the terrine, and serve it incrusted in ablock of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1853" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHAUD = FROID de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for “Chaud-froid de Volaille” (No. 1689),and use a brown chaud-froid sauce, flavoured with pheasantfumet.</p>
		<p>In regard to the decoration, dishing, &amp;c., follow the recipealready referred to.</p>
		<h3 id="1854" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHAUD-FROID de FAISAN à la BULOZ</h3>
		<p>Poele a pheasant, keeping it underdone; raise its supremes,and cut these into thin collops.</p>
		<p>With a fumet prepared from the carcass and the poeling-liquor, prepare a brown chaud-froid sauce. Coat the collopswith this sauce, and also coat ten cooked and grooved mush-rooms with a white chaud-froid sauce.</p>
		<p>588</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Clothe a dome-mould with clear aspic jelly, and deck it withtruffles.</p>
		<p>Set the collops of pheasant and the chaud-froid-coated truf-fles inside, alternating the two in so doing; fill up the mouldwith the same jelly, and let it set on ice. When about to serve,turn out after the manner of an aspic, on a low cushion ofrice or semolina, lying on a round dish.</p>
		<p>Border with neatly-cut croutons of very clear aspic.</p>
		<p>,855—FAI5AN à la CROIX de BERNY</p>
		<p>Roast the pheasant and keep it underdone. When it isquite cold, raise its fillets and leave the legs and the wingsattached to the carcass.</p>
		<p>By means of scissors, completely bone the carcass; garnishits inside with a truffled foie-gras Parfait, and cover it with athin coat of foie-gras Mousse.</p>
		<p>Replace the fillets upon this Mousse, after having slicedthem, and fill any gaps that may exist between the slices withsome of the same Mousse: thus reconstructing the bird.</p>
		<p>Let the Mousse set thoroughly, and glaze with aspic jelly.Meanwhile, coat eight boned, stuffed, poached and cold larkswith brown chaud-froid sauce. Decorate them with pieces oftruffle and salted tongue, and glaze them with aspic jelly</p>
		<p>Dish the pheasant on a low cushion; surround it with thelarks, and garnish the gaps between the latter with choppedand very clear aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1856" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—FAISAN EN DAUBE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Terrine de Poularde k la gel£e” (No. 1701),making due allowance, in the cooking, for the differencebetween the sizes of the two birds.</p>
		<p>, 857—COTELETTES de FAISAN</p>
		<p>Proceed as for “Cotelettes froides de Volaille.”</p>
		<h3 id="1858" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— GALANTINE de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>See “Galantine de Volaille” (No. 1708).</p>
		<h3 id="1859" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSE de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Prepare the Mousse according to the usual procedure, andmould it after the manner of “Mousse de Volaille” (No. 1711).</p>
		<h3 id="1860" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PAIN de FAISAN EN BELLE-VUE</h3>
		<p>The procedure follows that of No. 1709, but for the differencein the basic ingredient, which in this case is pheasant.</p>
		<p>GAME 589</p>
		<h3 id="1861" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—suprPmes de FA 15an chatelaine</h3>
		<p>Raise the supremes and prepare them exactly like thesupremes of fowl in “Chaud-froid F^lix Faure” (No. 1691).Poach them; cool them, and cut them into medallions asexplained.</p>
		<p>Cover half of these medallions with chicken Mousse, and theother half with pheasant Mousse. Keep on ice for some timethat the Mousse may set. This done, coat the first lot withbrown chaud-froid sauce and the second lot with white chaud-froid sauce. Deck each medallion with small pieces of truffle.Set them in a deep, square dish (alternating the two colours),and cover with very clear, succulent aspic jelly. Leave to setand serve on a block of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1862" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SUPREMES de FAISAN GASTRONOME</h3>
		<p>Poele the pheasant in Madeira and let it cool. Raise thefillets; cut them into thin, regular slices; coat them with brownchaud-froid sauce, and decorate according to fancy. With thetrimmings and the meat of the legs, prepare a pheasant Mousseafter the manner described under No. 1711, and mould it in aParfait mould which should have the depth of the chaud-froid-coated slices.</p>
		<p>When this Mousse has set, turn it out on a dish and placethe slices all round, standing them upright and letting themlean one against the other.</p>
		<p>Surround with a crown of fine, fair-sized, peeled truffles,cooked in Champagne, and set one of them on the top of theMousse, fixing it there by means of a hatelet.</p>
		<p>Border the dish with fine croutons of aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1863" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TERRINE de FAISAN</h3>
		<p>Prepare it after the manner of the “Terrine de Li£vre” (No.1825), and take care to make due allowance, in the cooking, forthe difference, in the matter of tenderness, between the twomeats. But the explanations already given on this subjectought to suffice for ascertaining whether or not the patty havecooked sufficiently.</p>
		<p>PARTRIDGE (PERDRIX ET PERDREAUX)</p>
		<p>Three kinds of partridges are used in Cookery :—the GreyPartridge, which is commonest in flat country, and which isalso the most highly esteemed; the Red Partridge, which is to befound in hilly and wooded country; and the Bartavelle (perdixvertevella), which is a somewhat larger species than the twoformer. To these three kinds may be added the American</p>
		<p>59o</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Colin (Ortix Virginianus), an excellent bird sometimes seen inEnglish markets.</p>
		<p>All the recipes given for pheasants may be applied to par-tridge, and below, I shall only give those which are proper tothe latter.</p>
		<h3 id="1864" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PERDREAU à la BOURGUIGNONNE</h3>
		<p>Truss the partridge as for an entree; three-parts poele it, andplace it in a terrine with six small glazed onions and as manysmall, cooked mushroom heads. Swill the saucepan with aglassful of red wine; reduce it two-thirds, and add a table-spoonful of game half-glaze. Strain; clear of grease; pour thissauce over the partridge, and complete the latter’s cooking forseven or eight minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="1865" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PERDREAU EN DEMNDEUIL</h3>
		<p>Bone the breast and fill the partridge with truffled partridgeforcemeat, prepared with panada or butter. Between the skinand the fillets, slip a few slices of very black truffle; truss asfor an entree; wrap the piece in muslin, and poach it for thirtyminutes in a game fumet.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, remove the muslin; take the stringoff, and dish the partridge. Reduce the fumet in which thepartridge has poached; strain it; add thereto a liqueur-glassfulof burnt liqueur-brandy, and send this reduced fumet sepa-rately.</p>
		<h3 id="1866" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PERDREAU EN ESTOUFFADE</h3>
		<p>Brown the partridge in the oven and set in a terrine justlarge enough to hold it, with a tablespoonful of Matignon (No.227) and one crushed juniper berry, on top and beneath.</p>
		<p>Add one-half oz. of butter, a liqueur-glassful of burntbrandy, and twice that amount of game fumet. Close theterrine; seal down the lid with a strip of paste; bake in a hotoven for twenty-five minutes and serve the dish as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="1867" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PERDREAU à la LAUTREC</h3>
		<p>Select a young partridge; open its back; slightly flatten itwith a butcher’s beater; pierce it through with a skewer; seasonit with salt, pepper and melted butter, and gently grill.</p>
		<p>At the same time grill six small mushroom-heads.</p>
		<p>Dish the partridge; on either side of it set the mushrooms,each of which should be garnished with a coffeespoonful ofMaitre-d’hotel butter; surround the mushrooms with a thread ofmelted meat glaze and sprinkle the partridge with a few dropsof lemon juice.</p>
		<p>59i</p>
		<h3 id="1868" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PERDREAU LADY CLIFFORD</h3>
		<p>Cook the partridge in butter in a saucepan. When it isthree-parts done, surround it with two oz. of fine slices ofraw truffle; add a liqueur-glassful of burnt brandy and onetablespoonful of clear melted meat glaze.</p>
		<p>Serve a Soubise sauce at the same time and separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1869" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PERDREAU aux CHOUX</h3>
		<p>Prepare a garnish of braised cabbages as explained under No.2100, and add thereto an old partridge, browned in the ovenor on the spit. Meanwhile, roast or poele a very tender youngpartridge and keep it underdone.</p>
		<p>Dish the cabbages, which should be well drained; set theyoung partridge upon them, and surround with small rectanglesof very lean bacon, cooked with the cabbages, and a thread ofhalf-glaze sauce, flavoured with game jumet.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This dish may be given a more decorative appearanceby means of a sort of Chartreuse, which is prepared as fol-lows:—Line a large bowl or a buttered, round-bottomed tim-bale with roundels of sausages; roundels of carrots arranged insuperposed rows, separated by a line of French beans or peas;and small rectangles of bacon, laid side by side.</p>
		<p>Line the inside of the timbale with a thick layer of cab-bages, and put the young partridge, breast undermost, in themiddle (the partridge may also be carved up). Cover the cab-bages and press the latter with a fork; turn the timbale out on adish and tilt the latter that all the grease may fall before with-drawing the timbale, which answers the purpose of a mould.</p>
		<p>Surround w’ith a thread of half-glaze sauce, flavoured withgame fumet.</p>
		<h3 id="1870" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CREPINETTES de PERDREAUX</h3>
		<p>After substituting the meat of a young partridge, cleared ofall tendons, for the veal sweetbreads, and fresh bacon for calf’sudder, proceed exactly as directed (as regards quantities andother particulars) under “Cr^pinettes de ris de Veau” (No.1222), taking care to add three oz. of chopped truffles per lb.of the forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Divide up the forcemeat into portions one and one-half oz.to two oz. in weight; wrap them in pig’s caul; roll them firstin melted butter and then in bread-crumbs, and grill themgently.</p>
		<p>The usual accompaniment to these cr^pinettes is a lightchestnut or lentil puree.</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>592</p>
		<h3 id="1871" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— EPIGRAMMES de PERDREAU</h3>
		<p>Raise the young partridge’s fillets, leaving the wing-boneattached to the carcass, and put them aside. From the minionfillets and the meat of the legs, prepare a mousseline forcemeat;mould the latter in very small buttered cutlet moulds, and set topoach.</p>
		<p>Roll the fillets in melted butter and bread-crumbs, and grillthem gently. Dip the cutlets in beaten egg; roll them in finely-chopped truffles; press upon the latter with the flat of a knife,that they may combine with the egg; adjust the shape of thecutlets, and toss them in butter.</p>
		<p>Dish in the form of a circle, alternating the fillets and thecutlets; pour in their midst a cullis prepared from the par-tridge’s carcasses, and serve a chestnut pur£e separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1872" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TIMBALE de PERDREAU DIANE</h3>
		<p>Line a liberally-buttered, shallow mould with crescents oftruffle arranged in superposed rows, and then completely coverthe bottom and sides of the mould with a layer, two-thirds in.thick, of raw partridge forcemeat.</p>
		<p>Place the mould in the front of the oven that the forcemeatmay be poached; and then spread another layer of gratin force-meat of game.</p>
		<p>Fill the utensil with a garnish of small quenelles consistingof truffled partridge forcemeat, mushrooms and slices of truf-fles, cohered with a reduced Madeira sauce. Cover the garnishwith a small coat of forcemeat, and poach in the bain-mariefor from thirty to thirty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out on a dish, and deck the tim-bale with a crown of partridges’ supremes, raised from birdsfresh from the spit or the oven. Surround the base of thetimbale with a thread of Diane sauce, and send a sauceboat ofthe latter separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1873" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PERDREAUX FROIDS</h3>
		<p>The various recipes given for cold pheasant also suit coldpartridge; it is only necessary therefore to replace the word“pheasant” by “partridge” in the formulae referred to.</p>
		<h3 id="1874" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— WOODCOCK and SNIPE(BECASSEET BECASSINES)</h3>
		<p>If grouse, which can only be thoroughly appreciated inits native country, wyere extinct, woodcock would be the leadingfeathered game. But the latter have this advantage over theformer, namely: that their fumet is not so fugitive, and thatthey may be kept much longer. Woodcock does not yield itsfull quality unless it be moderately high.</p>
		<p>593</p>
		<h3 id="1875" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BECASSE de CAREME</h3>
		<p>Sprinkle the woodcock with a few drops of oil, and roastit, keeping it underdone. As soon as it is cooked, divide itinto two lengthwise, and cut each half of the breast into twocollops. Mix half a coffeespoonful of French mustard in asmall vegetable-pan, with a few drops of lemon juice. Roll thepieces of woodcock in this mustard, and keep them hot.</p>
		<p>Chop up the carcass and the intestines; sprinkle with aglassful of burnt liqueur brandy; reduce; add a tablespoonfulof game fumet, and cook for five minutes.</p>
		<p>Strain through a strainer, pressing on the pieces of wood-cock in so doing, and rock the saucepan, that the pieces maybe coated with the cullis. Dish in a hot timbale, and, uponthe pieces, set the woodcock’s head.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Becasse a la fine Champagne is prepared in the sameway, but without mustard. Cut it into six pieces: wings, legsand two halves of the breast, and put these pieces into a roundcocotte. Swill the saucepan with burnt liqueur brandy; add thechopped intestines, mixed with the juices of the pressed carcass;add a tablespoonful of fumet, a little lemon juice, and a littlecayenne, and pour this cullis (heated but not boiled) over thepieces.</p>
		<p>Becasse a la Riche is prepared in the same way, but:—(1)the pieces are dished on a crouton of fried bread, coated withgratin forcemeat of game; (2) the sauce is thickened with alittle foie-gras pur£e and one oz. of butter, and then strainedover the pieces through a coarse strainer, during which processthe operator should press with a spoon or a whisk.</p>
		<h3 id="1876" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BECASSE à la FAVART</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Caneton rouennais Souffle” (No. 1764),and remember to add the woodcock’s intestines to the force-meat.</p>
		<p>When the carcass is garnished, set the sliced supremes onthe forcemeat, with a row of sliced truffles in the middle. Theforcemeat should poach for about twenty minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve at the same time a half-glaze sauce, flavoured withwoodcock fumet.</p>
		<h3 id="1877" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—SALMIS de BECASSE</h3>
		<p>Under the article “Pheasant,” I gave the generic recipe forSalmis, which may be applied to all feathered game. In regardto the Woodcock Salmis, the operator should remember to addthe bird’s intestines to the sauce, and to keep the meat ratherunder- than overdone.</p>
		<p>Q Q</p>
		<p>594</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1878" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— BECASSE SOUVAROFF</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for “Faisan k la Souvaroff” (No. 1845),after making due allowance for the size of the bird in regardto the quantity of truffles and foie gras.</p>
		<h3 id="1879" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— MOUSSES ET MOUSSELINES de BECASSE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as indicated in No. 1850.</p>
		<h3 id="1880" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TIMBALE de BECASSE.METTERNICH</h3>
		<p>Prepare a somewhat shallow, decorated timbale crust.</p>
		<p>Roast the woodcocks and keep them underdone.</p>
		<p>Raise the supremes and put them in the timbale, separatingthem by collops of fresh foie gras, sauted at the last moment.</p>
		<p>Pound the remains of the woodcocks, including their car-casses; thin the purée with truffle essence; rub it through asieve, pressing heavily the while, and then rub it throughtammy.</p>
		<p>Heat the cullis thus obtained, without letting it boil; finishit with a little lemon juice, liqueur-brandy and butter, and pourit into the timbale over the pieces of woodcock and the foie grascollops.</p>
		<p>Dish the timbale on a folded napkin, lying on a round dish.</p>
		<h3 id="1881" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— TIMBALE de BECASSE NESSELRODE</h3>
		<p>Poele the wroodcocks and keep them underdone.</p>
		<p>As soon as they are cooked, raise their fillets and put theseaside.</p>
		<p>Bone the remains, and pound the meat thus obtained, to-gether with a quarter of its weight of raw foie gras.</p>
		<p>Rub through a sieve, and add an equal weight of gameforcemeat, prepared with panada and butter. Add the choppedcarcasses and a glassful of liqueur brandy to the poeling-liquor;cook for a few minutes; strain, and in this stock poach five oz.of olive-shaped truffles (for an ordinary timbale).</p>
		<p>Line a buttered Charlotte-mould with short paste; cover itsbottom and sides with the prepared forcemeat, and against thisforcemeat set the woodcock’s supremes, cut into collops.Garnish the centre with the truffles, and cover these with a fewtablespoonfuls of Espagnole, reduced with some of the fumet.Close the timbale with a layer of paste, as explained in thevarious preceding timbale recipes, and bake in a good, moderateoven for about forty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out the timbale on a dish; pourinto the former some half-glaze sauce combined with whatremains of the fumet, and send a sauceboat of the same sauceseparately.</p>
		<p>595</p>
		<p>N.B.—This “Timbale Nesselrode'’ may be prepared afterthe same recipe, from Pheasant, Partridge, Woodcock or Hazel-Hen, but the name of the selected bird should, of course, appearon the menu.</p>
		<h3 id="1882" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—BECASSES ET BECASSINES FROIDES</h3>
		<p>All the recipes given for cold pheasant and partridge may beapplied to woodcocks and snipes.</p>
		<h3 id="1883" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—QUAILS</h3>
		<p>Quails should always be chosen plump, and their fat shouldbe white and very firm. Besides the spit, which should alwaysbe used in preference to the oven for roasting, they allow oftwo other methods of cooking: they may be cooked in butter,in a saucepan; or they may be poached in excellent strong andgelatinous veal stock.</p>
		<p>This last mode of procedure greatly enhances the quail’squality and is frequently used.</p>
		<h3 id="1884" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES EN CASSEROLE</h3>
		<p>Cook them in butter, in the saucepan in which they will beserved.</p>
		<p>Swill with a few drops of brandy; add a little game fumet;cover, and serve very hot.</p>
		<h3 id="1885" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES aux CERISES</h3>
		<p>For four quails :—Truss them as for an entree and cook themwith butter in a saucepan. Swill with a little brandy and aglass of port, in which a piece of orange rind should havesoaked.</p>
		<p>Add three tablespoonfuls of excellent veal stock, three table-spoonfuls of red-currant jelly and about forty cherries, pre-viously poached in a boiling syrup of about 180 (Saccharometer)and cooled in the syrup.</p>
		<p>Drain them before adding them to the quail, and, if thesauce be too insipid, sharpen it with a few drops of lemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="1886" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES à la DAUPHINE</h3>
		<p>Wrap each quail in a buttered vine-leaf and a thin, squareslice of bacon, and roast them for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, prepare a well-seasoned purée of fresh peas withlettuce, and reduce it to a somewhat stiff consistence.</p>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of a deep dish with very thinslices of ham; pour the puree into it; smooth the surface, andhalf-plunge the quails into this puree.</p>
		<p>Place in the oven for ten minutes, and this done, send thedish to the table immediately.</p>
		<p>Q Q 2</p>
		<h3 id="1887" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES FIGARO</h3>
		<p>Insert a piece of truffle into each quail, and wrap them eachin a piece of gut together with a bit of pale veal glaze, thesize of a pigeon’s egg. String the pieces of gut at two pointsone in. from either extremity of the quails, that the envelopemay not burst while cooking. Poach the quails in good vealstock, that they may not be washed as they would be if thegut happened to burst in a poaching-liquor consisting of saltedwater.</p>
		<p>Serve the quails as they leave their cooking-liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="1888" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES à la GRECQUE</h3>
		<p>Cook the quails in a saucepan, and set them in a timbale,half-garnished with “Riz h la Grecque.” Swill the saucepanwith a few tablespoonfuls of game fumct, and pour this swilling-liquor over the quails, without clearing it of grease.</p>
		<h3 id="1889" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES JULIETTE</h3>
		<p>Divide the quails into two along the back and do not separatethe two halves; season them; sprinkle them with melted butterand finely-chopped truffle. Wrap each quail in a piece of pig’scaul; sprinkle again with melted butter and fine raspings, andgrill gently.</p>
		<p>Dish the quails and sprinkle them with a few drops of ver-juice.</p>
		<h3 id="1890" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES JUDIC</h3>
		<p>Poele the quails.</p>
		<p>Dish them in the form of a crown, each on a small, braisedlettuce, with a cock’s kidney on either side and a truffle ontop. Coat with a half-glaze sauce prepared with quail fumet.</p>
		<h3 id="1891" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES LUCULLUS</h3>
		<p>Cook the quails in butter. Dish them in a circle on around dish, each on an oval or rectangular fried crouton, andbetween each set a fine truffle cooked in Champagne and chickenglaze.</p>
		<h3 id="1892" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES à la NORMANDE</h3>
		<p>Peel, mince and toss some apples in butter, as explainedunder “Faisan k la Normande.” Allow half an apple per quail.Garnish the bottom of a cocotte with some of these apples; uponthem set the quails, browned in butter; add what remains ofthe apples; sprinkle with a few tablespoonfuls of cream, andcomplete the cooking in the oven.</p>
		<p>597</p>
		<h3 id="1893" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES aux PETITS POIS à la ROMAINE</h3>
		<p>Cook the quails in butter. At the same time, fry in butterone small new onion and two-thirds oz. of raw, chopped ham,for each quail. Add some peas, shelled at the last moment, andcook without any moistening whatsoever.</p>
		<p>The moisture contained in the ham and peas is sufficient forthe cooking. The peas should be ready simultaneously withthe quails.</p>
		<p>Serve the quails and the peas separately, in little, closed tim-bales. The diner mixes them.</p>
		<h3 id="1894" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES aux RAISINS</h3>
		<p>Cook the quails in butter. Swill the utensil with a few dropsof dry, white wine and a little verjuice; add half a tablespoonfulof strong game fumet for each quail; and dish in a very hotcocotte with about one oz. of fresh peeled grapes for each quail.</p>
		<h3 id="1895" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES RICHELIEU</h3>
		<p>Select some fresh and plump quails; remove their gizzards;season them inside with a grain of salt and a few drops ofbrandy; insert a piece of raw truffle into each bird, and trussthem as for an entrde. Set them in a sautepan, snugly pressedone against the other, and season them with salt. Cover themwith a coarse julienne of carrots, onions and celery, cooked inbutter, and prepared as far as possible from new vegetables.</p>
		<p>Moisten, just enough to cover, with some succulent amber-coloured veal stock, gelatinous and fine; cover, boil, and thenpoach gently for twelve minutes.</p>
		<p>This done, add a julienne of truffles (raw if possible) whichshould equal only half of the vegetable julienne, and poach fora further two minutes, that the truffles may cook and the quailsbe done.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, clear of grease, and pour the cooking-liquor and the julienne over the quails.</p>
		<p>Pilaff rice is often served with quails prepared in this way.</p>
		<h3 id="1896" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—RIZOTTO de CAILLES</h3>
		<p>Into each quail insert a piece of fresh, pounded pork fat,the size of a hazel nut, combined with an equal quantity ofwhite truffle; and cook them in a saucepan with butter.</p>
		<p>Add their fat to a previously-prepared Rizotto. Dish thisrizotto in a timbale, and hollow it out so as to make a nest forthe quails.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the latter with the saucepan-swillings, consistingof game fumet; and send the dish to the table at once.</p>
		<p>598 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1897" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES SOUS LA CENDRE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the quails with a little smooth truffled game force-meat, and wrap them each in a buttered vine-leaf, followedby a slice of bacon, and finally by two sheets of buttered paper.</p>
		<p>Place them on the hearth-stone; cover them with very hotcinders, and cook thus for thirty-five minutes, taking care torenew the hot cinders from time to time.</p>
		<p>When about to serve them, remove the outside covering ofpaper which is charred, but leave the other coverings.</p>
		<p>N.B.—A log fire is essential for this recipe.</p>
		<h3 id="1898" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES SOUVAROFF</h3>
		<p>Prepare these as described under “Faisan &amp; la Souvaroff”(No. 1845).</p>
		<h3 id="1899" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES à la TURQUE</h3>
		<p>Truss the quails as for an entree; brown them in butter, andcomplete their cooking in pilaff rice, combined with a quarterof its weight of cooked and chopped egg-plant pulp.</p>
		<p>Set the rice in a pyramid on a dish; place the quails allround (upright against the rice), and surround with a thread ofquail fumet.</p>
		<p>,900—TIMBALE de CAILLES ALEXANDRA</p>
		<p>Coat a well-buttered timbale mould with patty paste, andline it with slices of bacon so as to completely cover the paste.The slices of bacon in this case are there to prevent the mois-tening of the timbale from reaching the paste. Insert a pieceof foie gras into each quail; stiffen them in butter, and setthem against the sides of the timbale in successive tiers.</p>
		<p>Completely garnish the middle with small, peeled truffles;add one-quarter pint of excellent stock with Madeira (per sixquails), and a few bits of bay-leaf. Close the timbale witha layer of paste and cook in a moderately hot oven for one andone-quarter hours.</p>
		<p>Turn out upon withdrawing from the oven, and serve thedish as it stands.</p>
		<p>N.B.—(1) The shell of paste merely serves to hold in thequails and their garnish, and ought not to be eaten</p>
		<p>(2) The same timbale may be prepared with ortolans, except•ifiat these need only forty-five minutes’ cooking.</p>
		<p>599</p>
		<p>Cold Quails</p>
		<h3 id="1901" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CHAUD-FROID de CAILLES EN BELLE-VUE</h3>
		<p>The quails should be boned for a chaud-froid, and stuffed withgratin forcemeat of game with a rod of foie gras and anotherof truffle set in the middle. This done, reshape them; wrapthem each in a square of muslin; poach them for twentyminutes in an excellent veal stock, and let them cool therein.</p>
		<p>When they are quite cold, dry them; and dip them, so as toveneer them all over, in a good brown chaud-froid sauce (No.34), prepared with quail fumet. Decorate the breast of eachquail elegantly with bits of truffle and poached white of egg;sprinkle with cold melted savoury jelly, so as to fix the decora-tion; and leave to set.</p>
		<p>Remove the excess of sauce from around the quails; setthem in a square, deep dish; cover them with very good limpidsavoury jelly, and place them in a refrigerator until they arerequired.</p>
		<h3 id="1902" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES EN CAISSES</h3>
		<p>Prepare the quails as for a chaud-froid, as above; but seteach in an oval, pleated case of delicate porcelain or paper.Border with a thin thread of chopped jelly, and on each quailset a head, the eyes of which may be imitated by means of aring of white of egg and a central spot of truffle.</p>
		<h3 id="1903" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES GLACEES au GRANITE</h3>
		<p>I shall only give a few recipes of this class; for the series isa long one, and I recommend them more particularly on accountof their quaintness. These dishes, wherein a sugary and glazedpreparation is introduced, are highly esteemed in summer; butthey really belong to the culinary repertory of hot countries.</p>
		<h3 id="1904" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES GLACfiES CERISETTE. Prepare the quailsas for an entree and poach them for 12 minutes in a strong vealstock, with Champagne. This done, put them each into a small,oval mould; fill up these moulds with cooking-liquor, cleared of allgrease and strained, and leave them to set on ice.</h3>
		<p>This preliminary procedure applies to all quail dishes in thisseries.</p>
		<p>Now prepare a Granitd with cherry juice (see No. 2930).</p>
		<p>Set this Granit6 in a pyramid on a dish incrusted in ice. Turnout the quails and place them round the Granite; fill up thegaps between them with small heaps of stoned cherries, poachedin syrup for a few minutes and quite cold.</p>
		<p>6oo</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>*905—CAILLES GLACEES CARMEN. Prepare the quails asabove, and place them round a rock of Granite made frompomegranates.</p>
		<h3 id="1906" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES GLACEES MARYLAND. Set them round</h3>
		<p>a rock of Granite made with pineapple.</p>
		<h3 id="1907" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES GLACEES REINE AMELIE. Prepare thequails in the usual way, and lay them round a rock of Graniteprepared with tomatoes.</h3>
		<h3 id="1908" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES GLACEES au ROMANEE. Poach the quailsin stock combined with Romance wine, and set them round a rockof Granite made with verjuice.</h3>
		<h3 id="1909" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— FILETS de CAILLES aux POMMES D’or. Raisethe quails’ suprimes, after having poached and cooled them. Setthese supremes in the rinds of small oranges or tangerines, and fillup the rinds with jelly prepared with Port. When about to serve,deck each orange or tangerine, by means of the piping-bag, witha small ornament of Granite, prepared with the juice of thefruit used.</h3>
		<h3 id="1910" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES CECILIA</h3>
		<p>Roast the quails, keeping them juicy, and leave them to cool.</p>
		<p>This done, raise their fillets and skin these; then, with theremains of the meat and an equal quantity of foie gras, preparea pur£e.</p>
		<p>Set each fillet of quail on a similarly-shaped slice of liver,causing it to adhere by means of the prepared pur£e, and coatwith brown chaud-froid sauce.</p>
		<p>When the sauce has quite set, place these fillets in an evenborder-mould, clothed with very limpid aspic, and decoratedwith truffles. Fill up the mould with the same aspic jelly,and let the latter set.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out on a napkin, after the mannerof an aspic.</p>
		<h3 id="1911" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CAILLES au CHATEAU-YQUEM</h3>
		<p>Prepare the quails like those “k la Richelieu” (No. 1895).After having added the julienne, sprinkle them with Chateau-Yquem; cover; reduce, and complete their cooking as directed.</p>
		<p>When they are poached, transfer them to another saucepan;add ten slices of truffle per quail; strain their cooking-liquor,through muslin, over them, and poach them for a further twominutes.</p>
		<p>This done, place the quails in a timbale; cover them with thecooking-liquor cleared of all grease; leave it to set, and serve ona block of ice.</p>
		<p>GAME</p>
		<p>601</p>
		<h3 id="1912" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MANDARINES de CAILLES</h3>
		<p>Slice the tangerine rinds at their stem-ends with an evenround cutter; remove the sections; put them to dry, and skinthem raw.</p>
		<p>Three-parts garnish the tangerine rinds with a quail Mousse,combined with foie gras, cut into dice; set a roasted quail’sfillet on the Mousse; coat with brown chaud-froid sauce, andcover with the sections of tangerine, glazed with aspic jelly.Keep in the cool for some time and dish on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="1913" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES NILLSON</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Cailles au Chateau-Yquem,” and set eachquail in a small, silver cassolette. Cover with the cooking-liquor, cleared of grease and strained, and surround each quailwith four small very white cocks’ kidneys.</p>
		<h3 id="1914" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES RICHELIEU FROIDES</h3>
		<p>Prepare these like the “Hot Cailles Richelieu”; placethem in a square, deep dish; cover with the cooking-liquor andthe garnish and let them cool until the cooking-liquor sets.Then clear the dish of all grease and serve on a block of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="1915" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—TIMBALE de CAILLES TZARINE</h3>
		<p>Line a round pie-dish with ordinary paste, and coat it insidewith slices of bacon. In the middle, place a fresh foie grasseasoned with salt, pepper and allspice, and surround it withquails, stuffed with quarters of truffles, set upright with theirbreasts against the bacon.</p>
		<p>Fill up the timbale with whole raw and peeled truffles;cover with a round slice of bacon; close the timbale with a layerof paste sealed down round the edges; make a slit in the top,and bake in a hot oven for one and one-quarter hours.</p>
		<p>When withdrawing the timbale from the oven, pour intoit some veal stock flavoured with Madeira, and let it be suffi-ciently gelatinous to set like a jelly.</p>
		<p>Keep the timbale in the cool for one or two days beforeserving it.</p>
		<h3 id="1916" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—CAILLES à la VENDANGEUSE</h3>
		<p>Roast the quails; let them cool, and set them, each in alittle dosser of dry paste, resting against a cushion lying on around dish. On top of the cushion plant a leafy vine-shootbearing grapes. Surround the quails with white and blackgrapes (peeled and pipped) and cover with a slightly gelatinousaspic jelly, prepared with liqueur brandy.</p>
		<p>602</p>
		<p>GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1917" class="formula" xml:lang="fr"> -MOUSSES de CAILLES</h3>
		<p>See the various remarks made concerning this subject, underPheasant, Partridge and Woodcock.</p>
		<h3 id="1918" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— LAND RAIL, ROI de CAILLESOU RALE de GENETS</h3>
		<p>The Land Rail, which must not be confused with the WaterRail, is most often served roasted, but all the quail recipes,hot or cold (except those in which Granite forms an accompani-ment) may be applied to it.</p>
		<h3 id="1919" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— HAZEL-HENS 1920-BLACK GAME</h3>
		<h3 id="1921" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—PRAIRIE-HENS 1922—PTARMIGAN</h3>
		<h3 id="1923" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—GROUSE *924—GANGAS</h3>
		<p>These birds, one or two of which, such as grouse and thehazel-hen, are of incomparable delicacy and high culinary value,are mostly served roasted.</p>
		<p>Mousses, Mousselines and Salmis are also prepared fromthem, after the directions already given. But I must remindthe reader that when they serve in the preparation of a salmis,their skins and legs, which are bitter, must be discarded.</p>
		<p>All these birds must be treated while still very fresh.</p>
		<h3 id="1925" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— GRIVES ET MERLES de CORSE(Thrushes and Corsican Blackbirds)</h3>
		<p>The greater part of the quail recipes, more particularly the“en casserole” and “sous la cendre” ones, may be appliedto these excellent birds.</p>
		<p>The two following recipes are proper to them.</p>
		<h3 id="1926" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— GRIVES OU MERLES à la BONNE-FEMME</h3>
		<p>Cook the birds in butter, with one oz. of very small dice ofsalted breast of bacon to each bird. Put them into a hot cocottewith two-thirds oz. of butter per bird; heat; add some squarecroutons fried in butter; sprinkle with the saucepan-swillings,which should be a few drops of brandy; cover, and serve veryhot immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="1927" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— GRIVES OU MERLES à la LIEGEOISE</h3>
		<p>Cook the birds in butter on the stove, in an uncoveredearthenware saucepan. When they are nearly done, sprinklethem with two finely-chopped juniper berries per bird; addsome round croutons of bread-crumb fried in butter; cover, andserve very hot.</p>
		<p>This procedure particularly suits thrushes, more especiallywhen these come from the Ardennes.</p>
		<p>GAME 603</p>
		<h3 id="1928" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—GRIVES ET MERLES FROIDS</h3>
		<p>The various, cold preparations of quails, except those com-prising a Granite, may be applied to thrushes.</p>
		<p>Alouettes ou Mauviettes (Larks)</p>
		<p>These birds are generally served to the number of two orthree for each person.</p>
		<h3 id="1939" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MAUVIETTES à la BONNE-FEMME</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as directed for the thrushes.</p>
		<p>!930—MAUVIETTES à la M&amp;RE MARIANNE</p>
		<p>Slice some peeled and cored russet apples, and three-partscook them in butter. Spread this stew in thick layers on abuttered dish.</p>
		<p>Simply stiffen the seasoned larks in nut-brown butter, andplace them upon the stewed apples, pressing them slightly intothe latter. Sprinkle with very fine bread-crumbs and meltedbutter, and set to glaze in the oven or at the Salamander, justlong enough to complete the cooking of the larks.</p>
		<h3 id="1931" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ALOUETTES DU PERE PHILIPPE</h3>
		<p>Clean some fine, medium-sized potatoes, allowing one toeach lark; and cut a cover from each, which thin down until itis only one-sixth inch thick. With a root-spoon, hollow out thepotatoes in such wise as to allow of their each enclosing a lark.</p>
		<p>Stiffen the larks in butter, and add thereto some salted breastof bacon, cut into small dice and blanched, and in the propor-tion of one-third oz. per lark. Place a lark in each potato,together with a few bacon dice and some of the cooking-fat;return cover of each potato to its place; fix it there by meansof cotton, and wrap each potato in oiled paper.</p>
		<p>Lay them on the hearth, cover them with hot cinders, andcook for about forty minutes, taking care to renew the cindersfrom time to time.</p>
		<h3 id="1932" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—MAUVIETTES FROIDES</h3>
		<p>When cold, larks may be prepared in plain chaud-froidfashion, in cases, in Belle-vue, in Aspic, as Mousses, &amp;c., inpursuance of the directions given under these various recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="1933" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">—ORTOLANS</h3>
		<p>Serve ortolans as plainly as possible; but the best methodof preparing them is roasting. However, for the sake of variety,they may be prepared as follows: —</p>
		<p>604 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="1934" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SYLPHIDES D’ORTOLANS</h3>
		<p>Butter some very small porcelain or silver cassolettes, andgarnish them half-full with mousseline forcemeat of ortolansprepared with truffle essence.</p>
		<p>Set these cassolettes in the front of the oven, that the force-meat may poach. Cook in butter, for three minutes only, asmany ortolans as there are garnished cassolettes, and proceedso as to have them just ready when the forcemeat is poached.</p>
		<p>Place an ortolan in each cassolette, and sprinkle them withnut-brown butter, combined with a little pale melted glaze andpineapple juice.</p>
		<h3 id="1935" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— BECS-FIGUES ET BEGUINETTES(Fig Peckers)</h3>
		<p>These birds are not met with in English markets; it istherefore useless to give the recipes concerning them. I willonly say that they may be prepared like the larks.</p>
		<p>,936—CANARDS SAUVAGES (Wild Duck)</p>
		<h3 id="1937" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— SARCELLES (Teal)</h3>
		<h3 id="1938" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PI LETS (Pintails and Widgeons)</h3>
		<p>Birds of this class are mostly served roasted.</p>
		<p>They may, however, be used in preparing excellent Salmis,which may be made after “Salmis de Faisan” (No. 1847) orafter “Salmis &amp; la Rouennaise” (No. 1763).</p>
		<p>They may also be prepared after all the recipes of “Canetonh la Rouennaise.”</p>
		<h3 id="1939" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— PLUVIERS DOR^S (Golden Plover)</h3>
		<h3 id="1940" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— VANNEAUX (Lapwings)</h3>
		<h3 id="1941" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">— CHEVALIERS DIVERS (Various Sandpipers)</h3>
		<p>These various birds are generally served roasted.</p>
		<p>They may also be served “en Salmis,” but in that case theskin must be discarded in the preparation of the cullis.</p>
		<p>They only appear on very ordinary menus, and could not beserved at an important dinner.</p>
	</body>
</html>