<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Les Rôtis et les Salades</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XVII <span epub:type="title">Roasts and Salads</span></h1>
		<p><span class="first-words">In</span> the first part of this work I explained the fundamental principles governing the treatment of Roasts, and I now have to add only a few words to what has already been said. Recipes may be consummate in detail and in accuracy, and still they will be found wanting in the matter of Roasts; for experience alone can tell the operator whether the joint he is treating be old or young, fresh or stale; whether it must be cooked quickly or slowly, and all the theories that I might advance on this subject, though perhaps they might not be useless, would at least prove impracticable nine times out of ten.</p>
		<p>I shall not prescribe any limit of time for Roasts, except in very special cases, and even so that limit will only be approximate.</p>
		<p>Nothing can be made precise in the matter; long practice alone, away from books, will teach it; for book-rules can only be understood when the light of practical knowledge is focussed upon them.</p>
		<h2 id="1942" class="formula">Accompaniment of Roasts</h2>
		<p>It struck me as desirable that I should give in this chapter the recipes of the various preparations which, in England, are served with Roasts:—Yorkshire Pudding, Veal Stuffing, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> Having treated of the accompanying sauces to Roasts in <a href="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml">Part I</a>, I need only recall them here.</p>
		<h2 id="1943" class="formula">Yorkshire Pudding <span class="subtitle">(For Beef Roasts)</span></h2>
		<p>Mix one-half <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of sifted flour with six eggs and one quart of boiled milk, adding the eggs one by one and the milk little by little. Season with salt, pepper and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Pour this preparation into a deep baking-pan, containing some very hot dripping, and bake in the oven. If the joint be roasted on the spit, put the Yorkshire pudding under it, on taking the former out of the oven, and let it thus become saturated with the gravy and fat that fall from the roast.</p>
		<p>Cut into squares or lozenges, and set these round the Roast or serve them separately.</p>
		<h2 id="1944" class="formula">Sage and Onions Stuffing<br /><span class="subtitle">(For Turkeys, Ducks and Geese)</span></h2>
		<p>Bake four large onions in the oven with their skins on. This done, peel them and finely chop them; fry them in butter with a pinch of dry green chopped sage. Add bread-crumbs, soaked in milk and pressed, equal in weight to the onions, and half the weight of chopped veal fat.</p>
		<h2 id="1945" class="formula">Veal Stuffing <span class="subtitle">(For Veal and Pork)</span></h2>
		<p>This stuffing is made from equal quantities of chopped suet, sifted bread-crumbs, and chopped parsley. Season with salt and pepper as for an ordinary forcemeat, and be liberal with the nutmeg.</p>
		<p>Cohere this forcemeat with three small eggs per two <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of the above preparation.</p>
		<h2 id="1946" class="formula">Roasts of Butcher’s Meat</h2>
		<p>I must remind the reader of this principle, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="videre licet" class="initialism">viz.</abbr>: that however natural it may seem in a dinner to serve a roasted joint as a Remove, a piece of butcher’s meat must never stand as a Roast.</p>
		<p>Roasts really only comprise Fowl and Feathered Game, provided the menu only announces one roast. If two are announced, the second generally consists of some kind of crustacean, such as a Lobster, a Spiny Lobster or Crayfish, generally served in the form of a Mousse; or of a preparation of foie gras, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>: either a Pâté, a Terrine, a Mousse or a Parfait sometimes, too, by a very good ham or a derivative preparation thereof.</p>
		<h2>Beef Roasts</h2>
		<h3 id="1947" class="formula">Roast Ribs of Beef</h3>
		<p>Clear the joint of the vertebræ and the yellow ligaments. Roast before a moderately fierce fire, and place the joint if possible in an uncovered braising-pan, the sides of which may protect the meat during the cooking process.</p>
		<h3 id="1948" class="formula">Roast Upper-fillet</h3>
		<p>Break the projecting bones of the vertebræ, and sever the yellow ligament at various points. For this joint the heat should be fiercer than in the previous case, the limit of time being less.</p>
		<h3 id="1949" class="formula">Roast Sirloin</h3>
		<p>These enormous pieces are scarcely trimmed; the excess of flank alone is suppressed; but the fillet must remain covered by a considerable thickness of fat, which protects it while roasting.</p>
		<p>Without this precautionary measure, the under-cut would be cooked long before the upper-fillet, and would dry up.</p>
		<p>The fire should be concentrated, regular and not too fierce for this joint. The flat bones of the vertebrae must be broken at their base, but not detached.</p>
		<h3 id="1950" class="formula">Fillet of Beef</h3>
		<p>Fillet of beef intended for roasting should be carefully cleared of its two sinewy envelopes. But, since this trimming tends to let it dry while cooking, were the meat left as it stands, it is customary to lard it with strips of fresh fat bacon, which protect it; or it may be wrapped in slices of bacon. In certain circumstances, it is covered on top and beneath with slices of beef fat, flattened to the thickness of a rasher of bacon by means of a beater, and tied on with string.</p>
		<p>Fillet of beef should be cooked with a somewhat fierce fire, and, in England, it is usually kept underdone towards the centre.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Large roast joints of beef are always accompanied by Yorkshire pudding, grated <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#119">Horse-radish</a> or <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#138">Horse-radish sauce</a> (№119 or 138).
</p>
		<h3 id="1951" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rotis De Veau <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Veal Roasts)</span></h3>
		<p>In my opinion, the spit does not suit veal, whatever be the quality of the latter. <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#250">Poëling (№250)</a> is preferable and suits it better.</p>
		<p>The quality of meat can but be enhanced under the treatment I suggest, more particularly as the poëling-liquor constitutes a much richer gravy than that which generally accompanies veal roasted on the spit. In English cookery roast veal is always accompanied by boiled ham or breast of bacon. <a href="#1945">Veal Stuffing</a> poached in steam in a special mould, and cut into slices, is sent at the same time.</p>
		<p>Roast joints of veal are generally <em>the Loin</em>, the best end, the <em>Neck</em> or the <em>Fillet</em>.</p>
		<p>Sometimes, too, but more rarely, <em>the Cushion</em> is roasted.</p>
		<h3 id="1952" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Rotis De Veau <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Veal Roasts)</span></h3>
		<p>Mutton and Lamb are the best possible meats to roast, and, as far as they are concerned, the culinary treatment might be limited to roasting.</p>
		<p>True, good results are obtained from poaching mutton and poëling home-lamb; but it is advisable only to have recourse to these methods when a menu requires varying.</p>
		<p>The Mutton joints roasted are <em>the Leg</em>, the <em>Double or Pair of Hind-legs, the Baron or (Hindquarters), the Saddle and the Neck</em>.</p>
		<p>The Shoulder also makes an excellent roast, but it may only appear on more or less unimportant menus.</p>
		<p>Roast joints of mutton and lamb are always accompanied by <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#136">Mint Sauce (№136)</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1953" class="formula">Pork Roasts</h3>
		<p>Pork roasts may only appear on very ordinary menus, and really belong to domestic cookery. The pork joints for roasting are <em>the Legs</em>, <em>the Fillets</em>, and <em>the Neck</em>.</p>
		<p>The joints selected should be those derived from very young animals, and the rind should be left upon them, and cut deeply in criss-cross lines, so as to form a lozenge pattern.</p>
		<p>Pork should always be roasted before a fierce fire, and it is accompanied by its gravy and <a href="#1944">Sage and Onions</a> or <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#112">Apple sauce (№112)</a>. Sometimes Apple sauce is replaced by <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#115">Cranberry sauce (№115)</a>; while <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#53">Roberts sauce Escoffier</a> is also admirably suited to these roasts.</p>
		<h3 id="1954" class="formula">Venison Roasts</h3>
		<p>I have already pointed out that Roebuck is not very much eaten in England, and that this excellent ground game must be used without having been marinaded. Every piece of roebuck must be trimmed and cleared of tendons, larded with larding bacon, or, at least, carefully wrapped in the latter; and roasted before a fierce fire and kept underdone towards the centre.</p>
		<p>The joints of roebuck most commonly roasted are <em>the Legs</em> and <em>the Saddle</em>.</p>
		<p><em>The fallow Deer</em> and <em>the Stag</em> supply the greater part of the Venison consumed in England; and when these animals are of good quality their flesh is covered by a thick coat of white fat, which is very highly esteemed by connoisseurs. Only the neck and the haunch are roasted, and the latter consists of one leg with half of the saddle attached.</p>
		<p>This venison is never marinaded, but it should be kept for as long as possible in a dry and well-aired place, that the meat may be gamy.</p>
		<p>Before hanging the joint, dredge it well with a mixture of flour and pepper, that it may keep dry and free from the flies.</p>
		<p>When about to prepare this Venison, scrape off the coating of flour; wrap it in an envelope of firm suet dough. Cover the whole with oiled paper, tied on with string; and place the joint before a regular, red fire, concentrated and fierce.</p>
		<p>When the joint is thought to be cooked, peel off its envelope; season it with salt; sprinkle it with a few pinches of flour, and plenty of melted butter, and brown it as quickly as possible.</p>
		<p>Large joints of Venison allow of the following adjuncts: <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#49">Poivrade sauce</a> and its derivatives, such as <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#57">Venison Sauce</a> and <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#39">Grand-Veneur sauce</a>; also the <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#134">Cumberland</a> and <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#137">Oxford sauces</a> of English cookery. Generally a sauce boat of red-currant jelly is sent with these joints, unless the accompanying sauce already contains some of it.</p>
		<h2>Fowl Roasts</h2>
		<h3 id="1955" class="formula">Pullets</h3>
		<p>Large birds, when roasted, should always be salted inside, trussed and covered with slices of bacon. They should be cooked before a concentrated and moderately fierce fire. About ten minutes before unhooking them, remove their covering of bacon, that their breasts may colour.</p>
		<p>A bird is known to be cooked when the juice which issues from it, if it be held over a plate, is white. Having ascertained that it is cooked, set it on a very hot dish and serve it instantly.
</p>
		<p>In England it is customary to surround the fowl with grilled sausages or slices of bacon, and to send a sauceboat of <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#113">bread sauce (№113)</a> at the same time as the gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1956" class="formula">Truffled Pullets</h3>
		<p>Empty the pullet intended for truffling, by means of a little hole on the side of the belly, and remember to keep the skin of the neck whole. This done, remove the collar bone at the summit of the breast, and detach the skin from the whole of the breast.</p>
		<p>For a fine pullet, there will be needed one and one-half <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of truffles.</p>
		<p>After having well brushed and washed the truffles, carefully peel them; select one of the largest; cut it into slices, and put these aside.</p>
		<p>Now quarter the other, letting each piece weigh about three <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr></p>
		<p>Pound the truffle peel with two <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of very fresh pork fat, and rub the whole through a sieve. Take about one-half <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of this fat: melt it, together with a bay-leaf; and, when it is quite liquid, add the quartered truffles to it (seasoned with salt and pepper), and simmer the whole for about ten minutes.</p>
		<p>This done, take it off the fire; leave to cool almost entirely under cover, and mix with what remains of the truffled fat.</p>
		<p>Stuff the pullet with this preparation, and slip between the bird’s skin and the flesh of its breast some thin slices of bacon. Upon the slices of bacon place the reserved slice of truffle; carefully sew up all the openings in the pullet with very thin string wrap it in one or two sheets of buttered paper; put it on the spit, and stand it before a concentrated fire which should be kept at an even heat throughout the process of roasting.</p>
		<p>About one-quarter of an hour before serving, remove the paper and the slices of bacon, that the breast may colour. Set on a hot dish, and send the gravy, which should be kept rather fat, separately.</p>
		<p>The time allowed for roasting a fine fowl is somewhere between one and one-quarter to one and one-half hours.</p>
		<h3 id="1957" class="formula"><span xml:lang="fr">Chicken à la Reine</span> and Spring Chickens</h3>
		<p>The directions given for the pullet also apply to other kinds of fowl, provided the difference in size be taken into account.</p>
		<h3 id="1958" class="formula">Spring Chickens <span xml:lang="fr">à la Russe</span></h3>
		<p>Truss the chicken and soak its breast for five minutes in boiling water, that the flesh and the skin may be stiff.</p>
		<p>Lard it with thin strips of bacon and anchovy fillets; fill it with smooth, truffled sausage-meat, and roast it on the spit.</p>
		<p>At the last moment, when the bird is cooked, baste it by means of a special paper horn, with burning melted bacon fat, which should frizzle the fowl’s skin as it falls upon it.</p>
		<p>Serve a <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#130">Rémoulade sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1959" class="formula">Roast Chicks</h3>
		<p>These birds should, if possible, be cooked “<a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#casserole">à la casserole</a>”.</p>
		<h3 id="1960" class="formula">Roast Young Turkeys</h3>
		<p>Before trussing the young turkey, clear its legs of all tendons; an operation effected by means of two incisions made on the inside of the legs, above and below the last joint. Seize the tendons one by one; fasten them to a braiding needle, and gently turn the latter, thus rolling the tendons round it.</p>
		<p>Young turkey is covered with slices of bacon and roasted like the Pullet.</p>
		<p>It may be stuffed with <a href="#1944">Sage and Onions (№1944)</a>, or it may be accompanied by <a href="#1945">Veal Stuffing (№1945)</a>, poached in steam in a special mould, and cut into slices set around the bird.</p>
		<p>It is often accompanied, also, by boiled or grilled bacon, or grilled sausages. A <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#112">Bread sauce</a> or a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#115">Cranberry sauce</a> maybe served in addition to the gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1961" class="formula">Truffled Young Turkeys</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for truffled pullet, after taking the difference of size into account in order to increase the quantity of truffles and fat, sis also the time limit.</p>
		<h3 id="1962" class="formula">Roast Gosling</h3>
		<p>The Gosling, in order to be roasted, should just have reached its full growth. In England the bird is stuffed with <a href="#1944">Sage and Onions (№1944)</a>, and it is always accompanied by <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#112">Apple Sauce (№112)</a>.</p>
		<p>This roast must not stand waiting, and ought to be served very hot.</p>
		<h3 id="1963" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Caneton Rôti <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Roast Duckling)</span></h3>
		<p>Aylesbury duckling, which is equal to the Nantes variety, is generally stuffed with <a href="#1944">Sage and Onions</a> before being roasted.</p>
		<p>Its most usual adjunct is <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#112">Apple Sauce</a>, which is sometimes replaced by melted, red-currant jelly or a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#115">Cranberry Sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="1964" class="formula">Caneton Rouennais</h3>
		<p>See the various recipes dealing with this bird (<a href="16-releves-and-entrees-of-poultry-and-game.xhtml#1754">№1754 to №1764</a>).</p>
		<h3 id="1965" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pintade <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Guinea Fowl)</span></h3>
		<p>This bird is only roasted when quite young, and it is treated like the pheasant, with which it has some points in common.</p>
		<h3 id="1966" class="formula">Young Pigeons <span class="subtitle">(Squabs)</span></h3>
		<p>Select them fresh from the nest and very plump. They must be roasted before a very fierce fire and only just done. Their skin must be kept crisp.</p>
		<h2>Ground-game Roasts</h2>
		<h3 id="1967" class="formula">Hare</h3>
		<p>The piece supplied by the hare for roasting is the “<span xml:lang="fr">Râble</span>” (the back), which constitutes that part of the animal reaching from the root of the neck to the tail, the latter being included.</p>
		<p>The “<span xml:lang="fr">Râble</span>” should be cleared of all tendons, and delicately larded with bacon.</p>
		<p>Roast before a fierce fire for twenty minutes, and have it only just done. The usual adjunct to this piece is <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#49">Poivrade Sauce</a>. In Northern countries, the adjunct is most commonly some slightly-sugared, stewed apples, or red currant jelly.</p>
		<p>In Germany, the pan in which the <span xml:lang="fr">Râble</span> is roasted is swilled with sour cream, and this cream constitutes the accompaniment. Sometimes a few drops of lemon juice or a tablespoon of melted meat glaze is added.
</p>
		<h3 id="1968" class="formula">Young Rabbit</h3>
		<p>The various recipes for Hare also apply to the young wild rabbit.</p>
		<h2>Feathered-game Roasts</h2>
		<h3 id="1969" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Faisan Rôti</h3>
		<p>Everything I said in the preceding chapter concerning the classification of feathered game applies in this instance.</p>
		<p>All birds intended for roasting should be young, plump, and fat. They should also be high in the case of pheasants, partridges, and the various kinds of woodcock and snipe.</p>
		<p>A pheasant for roasting should always be covered with slices of bacon.</p>
		<p>An excellent practice which greatly improves the bird is that of stuffing it with a piece of fresh pork fat, pounded with peelings of fresh truffles, if possible.</p>
		<p>Instead of well-pounded fresh pork fat, an equal weight of fresh butter may be used.</p>
		<p>This fatty substance impregnates the meat when it melts, and keeps the bird from becoming dry while cooking. The method also applies to partridge. Roast pheasant is generally accompanied by two trimmed half-lemons and a dish of potato chips. The gravy, which should be fat, is served in a sauceboat, and <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#113">bread sauce</a> or some bread-crumbs fried in butter are sent at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="1970" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Faisan Rôti à la Périgourdine</h3>
		<p>Stuff the pheasant with two <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of pounded fresh pork fat, two <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of foie-gras trimmings, and a similar quantity of raw-truffle parings, the whole pounded together and combined with one-half <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of raw truffles, cut into large dice.</p>
		<p>After having covered the pheasant with slices of bacon, roast it in accordance with the directions given under Truffled Pullet. It is better, however, to cook and serve it in a cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="1971" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Faisan Rôti à la Gunzbourg</h3>
		<p>Bone two fine snipes; empty them of their intestines; fry these in butter, and crush them on a plate. Chop up the meat of the snipes, combining half its weight of cream with it, and as much butter; season with salt and pepper, and add the crushed intestines and four <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of truffles cut into large dice.</p>
		<p>Stuff a fine pheasant with this preparation; roast it <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#casserole">“<em>en casserole</em>”, or rather in a <em>cocotte</em></a>.</p>
		<p>At the last moment sprinkle with a little fumet, prepared from the snipes’ carcasses.</p>
		<h3 id="1972" class="formula">Partridges</h3>
		<p>The above recipes, dealing with pheasants, may be applied to partridges.</p>
		<h3 id="1973" class="formula">Quails</h3>
		<p>Select them white, very fat, and with the fat firm.</p>
		<p>Wrap them in a buttered vine-leaf and a thin slice of bacon, and roast them before a fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes.</p>
		<p>Dish on small bread-crumb croûtons, fried in butter with half-lemons.</p>
		<p>Serve their gravy, which, of course, should be very short, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1974" class="formula">Roast Ortolans</h3>
		<p>Wrap each in a vine-leaf; set them on a tray, moistened with salted water, and cause them to set in a fierce oven for four or five minutes.</p>
		<p>The small amount of water lying on the bottom of the utensil produces an evaporation which prevents the ortolans’ fat from melting; consequently there is no need of slices of bacon, butter, or gravy.</p>
		<p>Each ortolan may be served in a half-lemon, shaped like a basket.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The ortolan is sufficient in itself, and it ought only to be eaten roasted. The products sometimes served as adjuncts to it, such as truffles and foie gras, are deleterious, if anything, to its quality, for they modify the delicacy of its flavour, and this modification is more particularly noticeable the more highly flavoured the adjunctive products may be.</p>
		<p>With its accompaniments it becomes a sumptuous dish, for the simple reason that it is expensive; but it does not follow that the true connoisseur will like it; it must be plainly roasted to suit him.</p>
		<h3 id="1975" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Ortolans aux Questches</h3>
		<p>Cut two large questches into halves, and allow one half for each ortolan. Garnish the inside of each with a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut; set them on a tray, and put them in the oven. When they are almost cooked, on each half of the questches place a moistened ortolan, wrapped in a vine-leaf, and bake them in a very hot oven for four minutes.</p>
		<p>Salt them when taking them out of the oven, and sprinkle them, by means of a brush, with verjuice.</p>
		<p>Serve them as they stand, but the questches are not eaten they only serve as a support for the ortolan.</p>
		<h3 id="1976" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Ortolans au Suc d’Ananas</h3>
		<p>Heat some fresh butter in a flat, earthenware cocotte, and allow one-quarter <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of it to each ortolan. Roll the previously salted ortolans in this butter, and put them in a very hot oven for three minutes.</p>
		<p>When taking them out of the oven, sprinkle them with a few tablespoonfuls of very cold pineapple juice. Cover the cocotte, and serve immediately.</p>
		<p>The cocotte should be just large enough to hold the ortolans.</p>
		<h3 id="1977" class="formula">Roast Woodcock</h3>
		<p>It should be just sufficiently high. Remove its gizzard; truss it, piercing the legs with the beak, after having drawn the eyes; cover it with slices of bacon, and cook it before a good fire for from fifteen to eighteen minutes. Dish on a cushion of fried bread, and serve the swilling-liquor separately, which in this case should be brandy and a few drops of good game gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1978" class="formula">Snipes and Becots</h3>
		<p>For the preparation, proceed as for the woodcock.</p>
		<p>Cause to set before a fierce fire, and cook for nine minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="1979" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Grives et Merles de Corse<br /><span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Thrushes and Corsican Blackbirds)</span></h3>
		<p>Truss them, and wrap them in slices of bacon. Insert a juniper berry into the thrushes. Roast before a moderately fierce fire for ten or twelve minutes, and dish on small cushions of fried bread.</p>
		<p>Serve a very short gravy separately.</p>
		<h3 id="1980" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Mauviettes<br /><span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Larks)</span></h3>
		<p>Wrap them in very thin slices of bacon, and impale them on a skewer, or discard the slices of bacon, and merely impale then on a skewer, separating them by blanched squares of breast of bacon.</p>
		<p>Roast for ten minutes before a fierce fire.</p>
		<p>Dish on small fried croûtons, with quarters of lemon and bunches of watercress all round.</p>
		<h3 id="1981" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Canards Sauvages <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Wild Duck)</span><br />Sarcelles <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Teal)</span><br />Pilets <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Widgeons and Pintails)</span></h3>
		<p>These birds are not covered with slices of bacon, and are roasted before a fierce fire.</p>
		<p><em>Wild duck</em> must be kept underdone, and, in view of this, twenty minutes suffice for the roasting. Dish with lemons and bunches of watercress all round.</p>
		<p><em>Wild duck</em>, roasted English-fashion.—Treat it as above; send an <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#112">apple sauce</a> to the table with it.</p>
		<p><em>Wild duck à la Bigarrade</em>.—This is roasted in a similar manner.</p>
		<p>Surround it with sections of orange, skinned raw, and serve a clear <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#31">Bigarrade sauce</a> separately.</p>
		<p>The <em>teal</em>, which is a small, wild duck, is roasted before a fierce fire for from ten to twelve minutes, and is surrounded with lemons and watercress.</p>
		<p><em>Widgeons</em> and <em>pintails</em> are treated like the teal, but they are allowed three or four minutes more in the roasting.</p>
		<h3 id="1982" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Pluviers Dorés <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Golden Plover)</span><br />Vanneaux <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Lapwing)</span><br />Chevaliers Divers <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Various Sandpipers)</span></h3>
		<p>These birds are not covered with slices of bacon; they must be roasted before a very fierce fire, and kept somewhat underdone. They must be served as soon as ready, as waiting is prejudicial to them.</p>
		<p>They admit of no accompaniment or garnish, except a very short gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="1983" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Grouses, Coqs de Bruyère <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Black Game)</span><br />Gelinottes <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Hazel-hens)</span></h3>
		<p>These birds must be very fresh when roasted, and should be kept moderately underdone.</p>
		<p>They allow of the same adjuncts as pheasant, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#113">bread sauce</a>, bread-crumbs, potato chips, and gravy; and their breasts alone are served as a rule. Grouse and hazel-hens, when they are young, make incomparably fine roasts.</p>
		<h2 class="part">Salads</h2>
		<p>Salads are of two kinds: simple, or compound. Simple, or raw salads always accompany hot roasts; compound salads, which generally consist of cooked vegetables, accompany cold roasts.</p>
		<h3 id="1984" class="formula">The Seasoning of Salads</h3>
		<ol>
			<li id="oil-seasoning"><em>Oil seasoning</em> may be applied to all salads, and is made up of three parts of oil to one part of vinegar, with salt and pepper.</li>
			<li id="cream-seasoning"><em>Cream seasoning</em> is particularly well suited to salads of early-season lettuce and cos lettuce, and is made up of three parts of very fresh and not very thick cream to one part of vinegar.</li>
			<li id="egg-seasoning"><em>Egg seasoning</em> is prepared from crushed hard-boiled yolks of egg, mixed in the salad-bowl with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper. The whites of egg, cut into thin strips, are added to the salad. This seasoning may also be a light <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</li>
			<li id="bacon-seasoning"><em>Bacon seasoning</em> is used especially for dandelion, red-cabbage, and corn salads. In this case the oil is replaced by the grease of the bacon dice, which are melted and frizzled in the omelet-pan. This grease is poured, while hot, with the bacon dice, over the salad, which should be in a hot salad-bowl and already seasoned with salt, pepper, and the vinegar which has served in swilling the omelet-pan.</li>
			<li id="mustard-seasoning"><em>Mustard with cream seasoning</em> is used particularly with beetroot salads, with salads of celeriac, and with green salads wherein beetroot plays a major part. It is made up of a small tablespoonful of mustard, mixed with one-third pint of fresh and somewhat thin cream, the juice of a fair-sized lemon, salt, and pepper.</li>
		</ol>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—I should like to point out that <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a> must only be used in very small quantities in the seasoning of salads. It is indigestible, and many constitutions cannot suffer it, especially at night at the end of a dinner.</p>
		<p>Raw onion should likewise only be used in salads with great moderation, in view of the fact that so many do not like it. In any case, it should be finely ciseled, washed in fresh water, and pressed in the corner of a towel.</p>
		<h3 id="1985" class="formula">Simple Salads</h3>
		<p>They comprise, in the first place, those salads known under the name of green salads. Such are lettuce, cos lettuce, chicory, endive, batavia, celery, corn-salad, dandelion, purslain, dittander, rampion, salsify leaves, white dandelion, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="1986" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salads de Betterave <span class="subtitle" xml:lang="en">(Beetroot Salad)</span></h3>
		<p>Beetroot is really the accompaniment of compound and simple salads, and it is always best to cook it in the oven. If it be prepared specially as a salad, cut it into a julienne or into thin roundels; flavour it with onions, first baked in cinders and then finely chopped, and season it with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> or with oil, according to fancy. Always add some chopped herbs.</p>
		<h3 id="1987" class="formula">Celery Salad</h3>
		<p>For salads, only the fibreless, white celery is used—commonly known as English celery. Cut it into pieces, and cisel these into very thin strips without altogether separating the latterattheirbase. Placeincoldwaterforafewhours, that the strips may curl; drain and season with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="1988" class="formula">Celeriac Salad</h3>
		<p>Cut the celeriac into a fine julienne or paysanne.</p>
		<p>Season, according to fancy, with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> with cream, or a clear <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a> containing plenty of mustard.</p>
		<h3 id="1989" class="formula">Cauliflower Salad</h3>
		<p>Divide the cooked and somewhat firm cauliflowers into small bunches, cleared of all stalk. Season with oil and vinegar, and flavour with chopped chervil.</p>
		<h3 id="1990" class="formula">Red-cabbage Salad</h3>
		<p>Suppress the midribs of the leaves; cut the leaves into a julienne, and season them with oil and vinegar six hours in advance. The julienne of cabbages may be parboiled for a few minutes to modify the rawness of the vegetable; it should then be cooled and seasoned as above.</p>
		<h3 id="1991" class="formula">Cucumber Salad</h3>
		<p>Peel and thinly slice them; sprinkle the slices with table-salt, and let them stand for two hours. Dry, and season them with oil, vinegar, and chopped chervil.</p>
		<h3 id="1992" class="formula">Haricot Beans and Lentil Salads, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></h3>
		<p>Thoroughly drain the vegetable, whatever be its kind; season with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped parsley. Serve separately some thinly-ciscled, washed, and pressed onion.</p>
		<h3 id="1993" class="formula">Potato Salad</h3>
		<p>Cut some long, fair-sized potatoes, cooked in salted water and lukewarm, to the shape of corks, and divide up the latter into thin roundels.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped herbs.</p>
		<h3 id="1994" class="formula">Potato Salad <span xml:lang="fr">à la Parisienne</span></h3>
		<p>Select potatoes which do not crumble, such as the vitelottes or new kidney potatoes. Cook them in salted water; cut them to the shape of corks, and slice them (while still lukewarm) into thin roundels. Put them into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle them with two-thirds pint of white wine per two <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of potatoes. Then season with oil and vinegar, add some chopped chervil and parsley, and stir with care lest the roundels break.</p>
		<h3 id="1995" class="formula">Tomato Salad</h3>
		<p>Select some medium-sized and rather firm tomatoes, and scald them. Then skin them; cut them in two crosswise; press them to clear them of juice and seeds; cut them into thin strips; season them with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped tarragon.</p>
		<h3 id="1996" class="formula">Compound Salads</h3>
		<p>Unless they leave the kitchen to be served immediately, compound salads are dished without their constituents being mixed. As the latter are generally of various colours, they are seasoned and dished in distinct heaps of contrasted shades.</p>
		<p>The dishing of compound salads is finished by means of borders consisting of pieces of very red beetroot, gherkins, truffles, roundels of potatoes, and radishes. The method of arranging these vegetables constitutes the decoration, and the latter, being subject to no rules, is merely a matter of taste.</p>
		<p>I do not advise the moulding of compound salads, for the increased sightliness resulting therefrom is small compared with the loss in the taste of the preparation. The simplest form of dishing is the best, and fancifulness should not be indulged in, beyond the arrangement of the vegetables in a pyramid, surrounded by a decorated border of jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="1997" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Allemande</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of potatoes and apples, gherkins, and herring-fillets, all cut into dice and arranged in heaps. Season with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#117">hard-boiled egg sauce</a>, and decorate with very red beetroot.</p>
		<h3 id="1998" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Américaine</h3>
		<p>Peel and press some tomatoes, and cut them into thin slices; cut some potatoes into thin roundels, and prepare a short julienne of celery.</p>
		<p>Decorate with roundels of hard-boiled eggs and thin onion rings.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar</p>
		<h3 id="1999" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Andalouse</h3>
		<p>Peel and quarter some small tomatoes; cut some mild capsicums jiilienne-iashion; cook some rice plainly in salted water, keeping each grain separate; add a little crushed garlic and chopped onion and parsley.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar.</p>
		<h3 id="2000" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Belle-Fermière</h3>
		<p>This salad consists of curled celery and equal quantities of plain-boiled potatoes, beetroot, and capsicum—all these vegetables cut julienne-isLshion, the celery measuring one-third, and the other ingredients two-thirds of the whole.</p>
		<p>Season with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2001" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Cressonniére</h3>
		<p>This salad consists of curled celery and equal quantities of plain-boiled potatoes, beetroot, and capsicum—all these vegetables cut julienne-fashion, the celery measuring one-third, and the other ingredients two-thirds of the whole.</p>
		<h3 id="2002" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Isabelle</h3>
		<p>Thinly slice equal quantities of raw mushrooms, celery, cooked potatoes, and artichoke-bottoms. Dish in distinct heaps.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped chervil.</p>
		<h3 id="2003" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Danicheff</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of sliced and blanched celeriac, thin roundels of potatoes, slices of artichoke-bottoms, strips of raw mushrooms, and green asparagus-heads, and arrange them in heaps.</p>
		<p>Deck with crayfishes’ tails, hard-boiled eggs, and truffles. Season with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="2004" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Demi-Deuil</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of a julienne of potatoes and a julienne of very black truffles. Decorate with rings of truffle girding small roundels of potato, and rings of potato girding small roundels of truffle. Alternate the two forms of rings.</p>
		<p>Season with a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2005" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade d’Estrées</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of curled celery and a moderately small julienne of raw truffles. Season, when about to dishup, with a <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a> with mustard, slightly flavoured with cayenne.</p>
		<h3 id="2006" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade à la Flamande</h3>
		<p>This consists of a coarse julienne of endives, a similar julienne of potatoes, an onion baked in its skin, cooled, peeled, and chopped, and some fillets of herring cut into dice, the quantities being in the proportion of one-half of the whole for the endives, one-quarter of the whole for the potatoes, and the remaining quarter for the onion and fillets of herring.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped parsley and chervil.</p>
		<h3 id="2007" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Francillon</h3>
		<p>Take some potato salad “<a href="#2017">à la Parisienne</a>”, previously marinaded in Chablis wine, some mussels (cleared of their beards, and poached with celery), and slices of very black truffle, the three constituents being in the proportion of one-half, one-quarter, and one-quarter respectively.</p>
		<p>Set the potato salad on the bottom of the salad bowl, and lay thereon, by way of decoration, the mussels and the truffles in alternate layers.</p>
		<h3 id="2008" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Italienne</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of carrots, turnips, potatoes, tomatoes, and French beans—all cut into regular dice; also peas, small stoned olives, capers, anchovy fillets in small dice, and herbs for the seasoning.</p>
		<p>Use hard-boiled eggs for the decoration.</p>
		<p>Season with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="2009" class="formula">Jokey-club Salad</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of asparagus-heads and a julienne of raw truffles; the two should be seasoned separately some time in advance.</p>
		<p>Cohere, when about to dish, with a very little highly-seasoned <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="2010" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Lacmé</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of red capsicums and <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#29">tomato sauce</a>; plain-boiled rice, kept very white, and with each grain distinct and ciseled, washed, and pressed onion.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar, and flavour with curry.</p>
		<h3 id="2011" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade de Legumes</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of carrots and turnips, raised by means of a grooved spoon-cutter potato dice; French beans; cut lozenge-form peas; small flageolets, and asparagus-heads; arrange them in distinct heaps, and set a fine bunch of cauliflower in the middle.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar, and add some chopped parsley and chervil.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—For vegetable salad, use freshly-cooked and uncooled vegetables as much as possible.</p>
		<h3 id="2012" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Lorette</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of corn salad, and a julienne of beetroot and celery. Season with oil and vinegar.</p>
		<h3 id="2013" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Mignon</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of shelled shrimps’ tails, artichoke-bottoms, cut into dice, and very thin slices of black truffle arranged to form a border. Season with highly-seasoned <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a> with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2014" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Monte-Cristo</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of lobster-meat, cooked truffles, and potatoes and hard-boiled eggs in dice, and arrange them in distinct heaps.</p>
		<p>In their midst place the very white heart of a lettuce. Season with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a> with mustard, and add some chopped tarragon.</p>
		<h3 id="2015" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Niçoise</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of French beans, potato dice, and quartered tomatoes. Decorate with capers, small, stoned olives, and anchovy fillets.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and vinegar.</p>
		<h3 id="2016" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Niçoise</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of white chicken meat, very red tongue, celery-sticks cut julienne-iashion, and a julienne of truffles. Arrange these constituents in very regular heaps, and in the middle of them set a heap of asparagus-heads. Decorate with a border consisting of roundels of cocks’ kidneys and roundels of gherkins, laid alternately.</p>
		<p>Season with very thin <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="2017" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Parisienne</h3>
		<p>Clothe a Charlotte-mould with very clear jelly, and garnish its bottom and sides with thin collops of spiny-lobster’s tail decked with truffles. Fill the mould with a <a href="#2011">vegetable salad (№2011)</a> combined with a quarter of its volume of lobster or spiny-lobster remains, cut into dice, and cohered by means of a cleared mayonnaise.</p>
		<p>Leave to set in the cool, and, when about to serve, turn out on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2018" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Mascotte</h3>
		<p>Take some green asparagus-heads, some hard-boiled lapwings’ eggs, some sliced cocks’ kidneys, some slices of truffle, and some crayfishes’ tails.</p>
		<p>Decorate according to fancy, making use of the ingredients of the salad for the purpose.</p>
		<p>Season with <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#94">mustard sauce</a> with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2019" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Rachel</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of sticks of celery, raw artichoke-bottoms, truffles, potatoes, and asparagus-heads, all, except the latter, being cut julienne-fashion.</p>
		<p>Slightly cohere the salad with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
		<h3 id="2020" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Régence</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of sliced cocks’ kidneys, shavings of raw truffles, asparagus-heads, and celery cut lengthwise into extremely thin strips.</p>
		<p>Season strongly with oil and lemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="2021" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Russe</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of carrots, potatoes, French beans, peas, truffles, capers, gherkins, sliced and cooked mushrooms, lobster meat, and lean ham—all cut julienne-iashion, and add some anchovy fillets.</p>
		<p>Cohere the whole with <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>; dish, and decorate with some of the ingredients of the salad, together with beetroot and caviare.</p>
		<h3 id="2022" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Sicilienne</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of celeriac, russet apples, tomatoes, and artichoke-bottoms—all four cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Season with oil and lemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="2023" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Trédern</h3>
		<p>Take twenty-four crayfishes’ tails, cooked as for bisque, and cut lengthwise; twenty-four oysters (cleared of their beards), poached in lemon juice; and three tablespoonfuls of asparagus-heads. The three constituents should have barely cooled. Complete with fine shavings of raw truffles.</p>
		<p>Season with condimented <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>, combined with a purée made from the crayfishes’ carcasses, pounded with two tablespoonfuls of fresh cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2024" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Truffles</h3>
		<p>Cut some raw, peeled truffles into very thin shavings.</p>
		<p>Season with a sauce consisting of hard-boiled egg-yolks, seasoned with salt and freshly-ground pepper, and finished with oil and lemon juice.</p>
		<h3 id="2025" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade de Truffles Blanches</h3>
		<p>Cut some raw, white, Piedmont truffles into thin shavings.</p>
		<p>Season with a sauce consisting of hard-boiled egg-yolks seasoned with salt and pepper, and finished with mustard, oil, and vinegar.</p>
		<h3 id="2026" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Victoria</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of spiny-lobster trimmings, asparagus-heads, truffles, and cucumbers—all cut into dice.</p>
		<p>Season with a <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>, combined with the spiny-lobster’s creamy parts and a purée of coral.</p>
		<h3 id="2027" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Salade Waldorf</h3>
		<p>Take equal quantities of russet apples and celeriac, both cut into dice, and halved and peeled walnuts, soaked in fresh water for one-quarter hour, and well drained.</p>
		<p>Season with clear <a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#126">mayonnaise sauce</a>.</p>
	</body>
</html>