<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Vegetables and Farinaceous Products</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XVIII <span epub:type="title">Vegetables and Farinaceous Products</span></h1>
		<p><span class="first-words">The</span> preparatory treatment of vegetables—parboiling and braising, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>—having been explained in <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml">Chapter X</a>, as also the preparation of purées, creams, and vegetable garnishes, it is now only necessary to deal with each vegetable separately.</p>
		<h2>Artichokes</h2>
		<h3 id="2028" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Artichauts à la Barigoule</h3>
		<p>Take some very fresh and tender artichokes. After having trimmed their tops, take off the outermost leaves; parboil the artichokes; remove their hearts, and completely clear them of their chokes. Season them inside, and fill them with a preparation of <a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-releves-and-entrees.xhtml#224">Duxelles (№224)</a>, combined with a quarter of its weight of fresh, grated, fat bacon, and as much butter.</p>
		<p>Wrap the stuffed artichokes in thin slices of bacon; string them,andsettheminasaucepanpreparedforbraising. Braise them gently with white wine, and cook them well.</p>
		<p>When about to serve them, remove the string and the bacon, and dish them.</p>
		<p>Strain the braising-liquor, and clear it of grease; thicken it with the necessary quantity of good half-glaze sauce; reduce it sufficiently to produce only a very little sauce, and pour the latter over the artichokes.</p>
		<h3 id="2029" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Cœrs d’Artichauts à la Clamart</h3>
		<p>Select some very tender small artichokes, and trim them.</p>
		<p>Set them in a buttered cocotte, with a small quartered carrot and three tablespoonfuls of freshly-shelled peas to each artichoke, add a large faggot and a little water, and salt moderately. Cover and cook gently in a steamer. Whenabout to serve, withdraw the faggot, and slightly thicken the liquor with a little manied butter.</p>
		<p>Serve the preparation in the cocotte.</p>
		<h3 id="2030" class="formula">Artichokes with Divers Sauces</h3>
		<p>Cut the artichokes evenly to within two-thirds of their height; trim them all round; string them, and plunge them into slightly-salted boiling water. Cook them rather quickly; drain them well, just before serving them, and remove the string.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin, and send a butter, a Hollandaise, or a mousseline sauce, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, at the same time.</p>
		<p>When artichokes, cooked in this way, have to be served cold, remove their chokes, dish them on a napkin, and send a Vinaigrette sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2031" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Artichauts à la Provençale</h3>
		<p>Select some very small Provençal artichokes; trim them,and put them in an earthenware stewpan containing some very hot oil. Season with salt and pepper; cover the stewpan, and leave to cook for about ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Then add, for each twelve artichokes, one pint of very tender, freshly-shelled peas, and a coarse julienne of one lettuce.</p>
		<p>Cover once more, and cook gently without moistening. The moisture of the peas and the lettuce suffices for the moistening, provided the stewpan be well covered and the fire be not too fierce—both of which conditions are necessary to prevent
evaporation on too large a scale.</p>
		<h3 id="2032" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Quartiers d’artichauts à l’Italienne</h3>
		<p>Turn, trim, and quarter some fair-sized artichokes. Trim the quarters, removing the chokes therefrom; rub them with a piece of lemon to prevent their blackening plunge them one; by one into fresh water; parboil and drain them. This done, set them in a sautépan on a litter of aromatics, as for braising make them sweat in the oven for seven or eight minutes; moisten with white wine; reduce the latter; and moisten again, to within half their height, with brown stock. Cook gently in the oven until the quarters are very tender.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, set them in a vegetable dish; strain the cooking-liquor; clear it of grease, and reduce it; add an Italian sauce to it, and pour this sauce over the quartered artichokes.</p>
		<h3 id="2033" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Fonds d’artichauts Farcis</h3>
		<p>Select some medium-sized artichokes; clear them of their leaves and their chokes; trim their bottoms, rub them with lemon to prevent their blackening, and cook them in a Blanc (№167), keeping them somewhat firm.</p>
		<p>After having drained them, stuff them with a <a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-releves-and-entrees.xhtml#224">little Duxelles, prepared according to №224</a>. Arrange them on a buttered dish; sprinkle the Duxelles with fine raspings and a little melted butter, and set in a hot oven for a gratiri to form.</p>
		<p>Serve a <a href="03-the-small-compound-sauces.xhtml#44">Madeira sauce</a> at the same time</p>
		<h3 id="2034" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Fonds d’artichauts à la Florentine</h3>
		<p>Prepare the artichoke-bottoms as above.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile fry a large, chopped onion in butter; add thereto two-thirds <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of parboiled and chopped spinach per twelve artichokes. Stir over an open fire, that all moisture may evaporate, and add salt and pepper, a piece of crushed garlic the size of a pea, a tablespoonful of anchovy purée, and two tablespoonfuls of <a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#25">Velouté</a>. Cook gently for ten minutes.
</p>
		<p>Stuff the artichoke-bottoms with this preparation; arrange them on a buttered dish; coat with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with Gruyère, cut brunoise-fashion, and set to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<p>Upon withdrawing the dish from the oven, sprinkle the artichoke-bottoms with a few drops of melted anchovy butter.</p>

		<h3 id="2035" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FONDS d’ARTICHAUTS aux POINTES d’ASPERQESPrepare the artichoke-bottoms as above; stew them in butter,</h3>
		<p>and garnish them with asparagus-heads, cohered with cream,and heaped in pyramid-form.</p>
		<p>Lay them on a buttered dish; coat with Mornay sauce, andset to glaze quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="2036" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FONDS d’ARTICHAUTS SAUTES</h3>
		<p>Remove the leaves and the chokes from the artichokes, trimthe bottoms, and slice them up raw. Season them with saltand pepper; toss them in butter; set them in a vegetable-dish,and sprinkle them with herbs.</p>
		<h3 id="2037" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE OU CRBME d’ARTICHAUTS</h3>
		<p>Take some very tender artichokes; trim and turn thebottoms, and half-cook them, keeping them very white. Com-plete their cooking in butter, and rub them through a fine sieve,together with the butter used in cooking.</p>
		<p>Put the pur^e thus obtained in a saucepan, and add to itthe half of its bulk of mashed, very smooth, and creamy potatoes.</p>
		<p>Finish the pur£e with a little fresh and a little hazel-nutbutter, the latter being used to increase the flavour of the arti-chokes.</p>
		<h3 id="2038" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ASPARAGUS (Asperges)</h3>
		<p>The best-known varieties of asparagus in England are: —</p>
		<p>1. The Lauris asparagus, which is par excellence the early-season kind.</p>
		<p>2. The green, Parisian asparagus, which is very small, andof which the most diminutive sticks, also called sprew, servefor garnishes.</p>
		<p>3. The Argenteuil asparagus—very much in demand whileit is in season.</p>
		<p>4. English asparagus, which is somewhat delicate inquality, but inclined to be small. During the season thereare, besides, several other kinds of asparagus imported fromSpain or France, which, though not equal to the four kindsabove mentioned, may nevertheless be used for soups or gar-nishes instead of asparagus-heads or sprew.</p>
		<p>Asparagus should be had as fresh as possible; it shouldbe cleaned with care, quickly washed, tied into faggots, andcooked in plenty of salted water. Certain kinds, the flavour ofwhich is somewhat bitter, should be transferred to other wateras soon as cooked, with the view of reducing their bitterness.</p>
		<p>Asparagus is dished on special silver drainers, or onnapkins.</p>
		<h3 id="2039" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">A5PERGE5 à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>According to Flemish custom, asparagus is served with onehot, hard-boiled half-egg, and one oz. of melted butter perperson. The egg-yolk is crushed, seasoned, and finished withthe butter by the consumers themselves. This accompanimentmay also be prepared beforehand and served in a sauceboat.</p>
		<h3 id="2040" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ASPERGES AU GRATIN</h3>
		<p>Dish the asparagus in rows, and coat the heads of eachrow with a little Mornay sauce. When all are dished, two-thirds cover the bunch with a band of buttered paper, andcoat the uncovered portion with Mornay sauce. Sprinkle withgrated Parmesan; glaze quickly at the salamander, remove thepaper, and serve at once.</p>
		<h3 id="2041" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ASPERGES à la MILANAISE</h3>
		<p>Having thoroughly drained the asparagus, set it on along, buttered dish sprinkled with grated Parmesan; arrangeit in successive rows, each of which sprinkle in the regionof the heads with grated Parmesan. When about to serve,cover the cheese-powdered parts copiously with nut-brownbutter, and set to glaze slightly at the salamander.</p>
		<p>s s 2</p>


		<h3 id="2042" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ASPERGES à la POLONAISE</h3>
		<p>Thoroughly drain the asparagus; set it on a long dish,in rows, and besprinkle the heads with hard-boiled egg-yolkand chopped parsley, mixed. When about to serve, cover theheads with nut-brown butter, combined with one oz. of veryfresh and fine bread-crumbs per four oz. of butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2043" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ASPARAGUS WITH VARIOUS SAUCES</h3>
		<p>Butter sauce, Hollandaise, Mousseline, and Maltese saucesare the most usual adjuncts to asparagus. B6arnaise saucewithout herbs is also served occasionally, likewise melted butter.</p>
		<p>When eaten cold, it may be served with oil and vinegaror a mayonnaise—more particularly a Chantilly mayonnaise,i.e., one to which beaten cream has been added.</p>
		<h3 id="2044" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SPREW WITH BUTTER (Pointes d’Asperges)</h3>
		<p>Sprew or green asparagus is chiefly used for garnishing oras a garnishing ingredient, but it may also be served as avegetable with perfect propriety. Cut the heads into two-inchlengths, and put them together in faggots.</p>
		<p>Cut what remains of them into bits the size of peas. Afterhaving washed the latter, plunge them into boiling saltedwater, and cook them quickly, that they may keep green.</p>
		<p>This done, thoroughly drain them; let their moistureevaporate by tossing them over the fire; cohere them withbutter, away from the fire, and dish them in a timbale with thefaggots on top.</p>
		<p>They are usually served in small patty crusts, or in smalltartlet crusts, with a few sprew tops on each small patty ortartlet.</p>
		<h3 id="2045" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POINTES d’ASPERGES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Prepare them, and cook them in salted water as above.</p>
		<p>Their cohesion with cream is in pursuance of the procedurecommon to other vegetables similarly prepared, and they areserved like those of No. 2044.</p>
		<p>Egg-Plant (Aubergines)</p>
		<h3 id="2046" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES A d’EGYPTIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut them into two lengthwise; trim them round the edges;cisel the middle of each with the view of facilitating the cook-ing process, and cook them.</p>
		<p>Drain them; remove the pulp from their insides, and setthe shells on a buttered gratin dish.</p>
		<p>This done, chop up the withdrawn pulp; add thereto a little</p>
		<p>chopped onion cooked in oil, and the same quantity of verylean, chopped, and cooked mutton as there is egg-plant pulp.</p>
		<p>Fill the egg-plant shells with this preparation; sprinklewith a few drops of oil, and set in the oven for fifteen minutes.On withdrawing the dish from the oven, set on each egg-planta few roundels of tomato, tossed in oil; sprinkle with choppedparsley, and serve.</p>
		<h3 id="2047" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES AU GRATIN</h3>
		<p>Fry the egg-plants as above; empty them, chop up theirpulps, and add to it an equal weight of dry Duxelles (No.223). Garnish the shells with this preparation, set them on agratin dish, sprinkle them with raspings and a few drops ofoil, and cause the gratin to form.</p>
		<p>Surround the egg-plants with a border of light half-glazesauce when serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2048" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES FRITES</h3>
		<p>Cut the egg-plants into thin roundels; season and dredgethem, and fry them in smoking oil. Dish them on a napkin,and serve immediately, that they may be eaten crisp. If theywait at all, they soften, and thereby lose quality.</p>
		<h3 id="2049" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES à la PROVENCALE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for No. 2047, but replace the Duxelles bytomatoes tossed in oil and flavoured with a little garlic.</p>
		<p>Set the gratin to form in the same way, and surround theegg-plants with a border of tomato sauce when taking them outof the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2050" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES SOUFFLEES</h3>
		<p>Cut some fine egg-plants into two; cisel them, and fry themin the usual way; remove the pulp from their insides, andset the shells on a buttered gratin dish. Finely chop the with-drawn pulp, and mix therewith an equal quantity of reducedBechamel sauce, combined with grated Parmesan.</p>
		<p>Add some white of egg beaten to a stiff froth, allowing asmuch of it as for an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<p>Garnish the egg-plant shells with this preparation, and cookin a moderate oven, as for ordinary souffle. On withdrawingthe dish from the oven, serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="2051" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AUBERGINES à la TURQUE</h3>
		<p>Peel the egg-plants and cut them, each lengthwise, intosix slices.</p>
		<p>Season, dredge, and fry these slices in oil; pair them off, andjoin them together by means of a very firm preparation of raw</p>


		<p>egg-y°ll&lt;s and grated, fresh cheese. When about to serve, dipthem into batter, and fry them in smoking oil.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin with very green fried parsley.</p>
		<p>These stuffed slices of egg-plant may be treated &amp; Vanglaiseinstead of with batter.</p>
		<h3 id="2052" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARDOONS (Cardons)</h3>
		<p>Treatment and Cooking Process.—After having suppressedthe green outside leaf-stalks, detach the white ones all round,and cut these into three-inch lengths. Peel these lengths, rubthem with lemon, that they may not blacken, and throw them,one by one, into fresh acidulated water.</p>
		<p>Prepare the heart of the cardoon in the same way, afterhaving withdrawn the fibrous parts, and cook the whole ina Blanc (No. 167), with one lb. of chopped veal fat, sprinkledover its surface, that the cardoon may be kept from blackeningby exposure to the air.</p>
		<p>Cook gently for about one and one-half hours.</p>
		<h3 id="2053" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARD0N5 AU PARMESAN</h3>
		<p>After having well drained the sections, build them into apyramid in successive layers. Sprinkle each row with a fewdrops of good half-glaze sauce, and with grated Parmesan.Cover the whole with the same sauce; sprinkle with gratedParmesan, and set to glaze quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="2054" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARDONS à la MORNAY</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as above, but replace half-glaze sauce byMornay sauce. Glaze quickly, and serve immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="2055" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARDONS à la MILANAISE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for “Asperges k la Milanaise” (No. 2041).</p>
		<h3 id="2056" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARDONS WITH VARIOUS SAUCES</h3>
		<p>They may be served either with gravy, or Half-glaze, Cream,Hollandaise, Mousseline, Italienne, or Bordelaise sauces.</p>
		<p>The sauce is either poured over them or served separately.</p>
		<p>If the sauce be poured over the cardoons, they are dished ina timbale; if the sauce be sent separately, they may be servedon a silver drainer, like asparagus.</p>
		<h3 id="2057" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CARDONS à la MOELLE</h3>
		<p>Dish the cardoons in a pyramid on a round dish; cover themwith a marrow sauce (No. 45), and surround them with verysmall puff-paste patties garnished with poached marrow dice.Or dish the cardoons in a timbale, and set thereon the heart</p>
		<p>cut into roundels and arranged in a crown, with a slice ofpoached marrow on each roundel of heart.</p>
		<p>Cover the whole with marrow sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2058" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">C(EUR de CARDON aux FINES HERBES</h3>
		<p>Having cooked the heart of the cardoon, trim it all roundso as to give it the cylindrical shape, and cut it laterally intoroundels one-third inch thick.</p>
		<p>Roll these roundels in some pale, thin, buttered meat glaze,combined with chopped herbs. Prepared in this way, the heartof a cardoon constitutes an excellent garnish for Tournedosand sauted chickens.</p>
		<p>Carrots (Carottes)</p>
		<h3 id="2059" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAROTTES GLACISES POUR GARNITURES</h3>
		<p>New carrots are not parboiled; they are turned, whole,halved, or quartered, according to their size, and then trimmed.If old, they should be turned to the shape of elongated olives,and parboiled before being set to cook.</p>
		<p>Put the carrots in a saucepan with enQUgh water to coverthem well, one-half oz. of salt, one oz. of sugar, and two oz.of butter per pint of water.</p>
		<p>Cook until the water has almost entirely evaporated, so thatthe reduction may have the consistence of a syrup. Saute thecarrots in this reduction, that they may be covered with abrilliant coat.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the ultimate purpose for which the carrots areintended, they should be prepared in this way.</p>
		<h3 id="2060" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAROTTES à la CRfeME</h3>
		<p>Prepare the carrots as above, and, when the moistening isreduced to the consistence of a syrup, cover them with boilingcream.</p>
		<p>Sufficiently reduce the latter, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2061" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAROTTES à la VICHY</h3>
		<p>Slice the carrots, and, if they be old, parboil them.</p>
		<p>Treat them exactly after the manner of the “GlazedCarrots” of No. 2059; dish them in a timbale, and sprinklethem with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2062" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CAROTTES</h3>
		<p>Slice the carrots, and cook them in slightly-salted water, withsugar and butter, as for “Glazed Carrots,” and a quarter oftheir weight of rice. Drain them as soon as they are cooked;rub them through a fine sieve; transfer the pur£e to a saut£-</p>


		<p>pan, and dry it over a fierce fire, together with three oz. of butterper lb. of pur£e.</p>
		<p>Now add a sufficient quantity of either milk or consomm6 togive it the consistence of an ordinary pur£e. Dish in a timbalewith triangular croutons of bread-crumbs, fried in butter at thelast moment.</p>
		<p>This pur£e is very commonly served as a garnish withbraised pieces of veal.</p>
		<h3 id="2063" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAN aux CAROTTES</h3>
		<p>This is served either as a vegetable or a sweet.</p>
		<p>Line a flawn ring with good, short paste (No. 2358); coatthe inside of the flawn with a round piece of paper, and fill itwith rice or split peas. Bake it without letting it brown; re-move the split peas or the rice, as also the paper, and garnishthe flawn crust with a slightly sugared pur6e of carrots. Coverthis pur^e with half-discs of carrot cooked as for No. 2059, andkept unbroken. Coat with the cooking-liquor of the carrotsreduced to a syrup, and put the flawn in the oven for fiveminutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2064" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CELERY (Celeri)</h3>
		<p>Celery for braising should be non-fibrous, white, and verytender. Cut the sticks till they measure only eight inches fromtheir roots; remove the green leaves all round; trim the root;wash with great care, parboil for one-quarter hour, and cool.</p>
		<p>This done, braise them after recipe No. 275. When theyare cooked, cut each stick into three pieces, and double up eachsection before dishing and serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2065" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS PREPARATIONS OF CELERY</h3>
		<p>The recipes given for cardoons may be applied to celery.On referring to the respective recipes, therefore, celery may beprepared: —</p>
		<p>Au Parmesan, Sauce Mornay, a la Milanaise, Italienne,Hollandaise, with gravy, &amp;c.</p>
		<h3 id="2066" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">pur£e de celeri</h3>
		<p>Slice the celery; parboil it, and stew it, until it is quitecooked, in a little very fat consomme.</p>
		<p>Drain as soon as cooked; rub through a sieve, adding thewhile the cooking-liquor cleared of all grease; thicken the pur^ewith about one quart of very white and firm potato pur^e;heat; add butter at the last moment, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2067" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CELERI-RAVE (Celeriac)Peel the celeriac; cut it into sections, and cook it in saltedwater.</h3>
		<p>Drain and rub it through tammy, adding plain-boiled,quartered potatoes the while in the proportion of one-third ofthe weight of the pur£e of celeriac.</p>
		<p>Put the pur^e in a sautdpan; add to it three oz. of butterper lb.; dry it over a fierce fire, and bring it to its normal con-sistence by means of milk. When about to serve, add butter,away from the fire, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>CIipes</p>
		<p>Those cepes which are barely opened or not opened at allare not parboiled. Contrariwise, those which are open shouldbe washed, parboiled, and stewed in butter, after having beenwell dried.</p>
		<h3 id="2068" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CEPES à la BORDELA1SECollop the cepes; season them with salt and pepper; putthem into very hot oil, and toss them until they are thoroughlyfrizzled. Almost at the last moment add, per one-half lb. ofcepes, one oz. of cepe stalks, which should have been putaside and chopped up, one teaspoonful of chopped shallots,and a tablespoonful of bread-crumbs—the object of which is toabsorb any excess of oil, once the cepes have been served.</h3>
		<p>Toss the whole together for a few minutes; dish in a tim-bale, and complete with a few drops of lemon juice and somechopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2069" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">C^PES a la cremeCollop the cepes, and stew them in butter with a dessert-spoonful of chopped onion per one-half lb. of cepes; the onionshould have been cooked in butter, without colouration.</h3>
		<p>When they are stewed, drain them; cover them with boilingcream, and boil gently until the latter is completely reduced.At the last moment finish with a little thin cream, and dish ina timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2070" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CEPES à la PROVEN£ALEProceed as for No. 2068, but substitute for the shallots somechopped onion and a mite of crushed garlic.</h3>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and complete with a few drops of lemonjuice and some chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2071" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CEPES à la ROSSINIProceed as for No. 2069, and add to the ctpes one-third oftheir weight of thickly-sliced, raw truffles, stewed at the same</h3>


		<p>time as the former. When about to serve, finish with a littlepale melted meat glaze, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>Mushrooms (Champignons)</p>
		<p>Cookery includes under this head only the white Parisianmushroom and the meadow mushroom, which is the kind socommonly used in England.</p>
		<p>The other kinds are always identified by special and properterms.</p>
		<h3 id="2072" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHAMPIGNONS à la CR&amp;MEProceed as described under No. 2069.</h3>
		<h3 id="2073" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHAMPIGNONS SAUTES</h3>
		<p>After having washed the mushrooms, dried, and ciseledthem, and seasoned them with salt and pepper, toss them withbutter in a frying-pan over a fierce fire. Sprinkle them withchopped parsley at the last moment, and dish them in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2074" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHAMPIGNONS GRILLES</h3>
		<p>Take some large Parisian or meadow mushrooms. Care-fully peel them; season them; smear them with oil, by meansof a brush, and grill them gently.</p>
		<p>Set them on a round dish, and garnish their midst withwell-softened, Maitre-d’Hotel butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2075" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHAMPIGNONS FARCIS</h3>
		<p>Select some fine, medium-sized mushrooms; suppress theirstalks; wash them, and dry them well. Set them on a dish;season them; sprinkle them with a few drops of oil; put themin the oven for five minutes, and garnish their midst withDuxelles (No. 224) shaped like a dome, and thickened or notwith bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the surface with fine raspings and a few drops ofoil or melted butter, and set the gratin to form in a somewhatfierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2076" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAN GRILLE aux CHAMPIGNONS</h3>
		<p>Line a buttered flawn-mould with good lining paste (No.</p>
		<h3 id="2358" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">).</h3>
		<p>Garnish it with very fresh and barely opened English mush-rooms, tossed in butter with a little chopped onion, coheredwith cream, and cooled.</p>
		<p>Moisten the edges of the flawn-mould, and deck it withcriss-cross strips of short paste, as for a latticed apple-flawn.</p>
		<p>Gild the lattice work; bake the flawn in a very hot oven, andserve it the moment it is withdrawn.</p>
		<h3 id="2077" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TARTELETTES GRILLEES aux CHAMPIGNONSThese tartlets constitute an excellent and beautiful garnish,more particularly for Tournedos and Noisettes. Proceed ex-actly as for No. 2076, but use tartlet moulds the size of whichis determined by the dimensions of the piece or preparationwhich they are to accompany.</h3>
		<h3 id="2078" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TURNED AND GROOVED MUSHROOMS</h3>
		<p>FOR GARNISHING</p>
		<p>Take some very fresh mushrooms; wash and drain themquickly.</p>
		<p>Suppress their stalks flush with their heads; turn or groovethe latter with the point of a small knife, and throw them, oneby one, into a boiling liquor prepared as follows: —</p>
		<p>For two lbs. of mushrooms, put one-sixth pint of water,one-third oz. of salt, two oz. of butter, and the juice of oneand one-half lemons, in a saucepan. Boil; add the mushrooms,and cook for five minutes. Transfer to a bowl immediately,and cover with a piece of buttered paper.</p>
		<h3 id="2079" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUR^E de CHAMPIGNONSClean, wash, and dry two lbs. of mushrooms. Quickly peelthem, and rub them through a sieve. Put this pur^e of rawmushrooms into a saut^pan with two-thirds pint of reducedBechamel sauce, and one-sixth pint of cream. Season with salt,white pepper, and nutmeg; reduce over an open fire for a fewminutes, and finish, away from the fire, with three oz. of bestbutter.</h3>
		<h3 id="2080" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MORELS (Morilles)The Spring mushroom or Morel is the one most preferredby connoisseurs. There are two kinds of morels—the pale andthe brown kind—both excellent, though some prefer the formerto the latter, and vice versS.</h3>
		<p>In spite of what connoisseurs may say regarding the errorof washing morels, I advocate the operation, and urge thereader to effect it carefully, and without omitting to open outthe alveolate parts, so as to wash away any sand particles thatmay be lodged therein.</p>
		<p>The Cooking of Morels.—If they be small, leave themwhole; if large, halve or quarter them. After having properlydrained them, put them in a saucepan with two oz. of butter,the juice of a lemon, and a pinch of salt and another of pepperper lb. of morels. Boil, and then stew for ten or twelve minutes.Never forget that the vegetable juices produced by the morelsshould be reduced and added to their accompanying sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2081" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MORILLES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for Cepes and Mushrooms with Cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2082" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MORILLES FARCIES</h3>
		<p>Select some large morels, and wash them well.</p>
		<p>Suppress their stems; chop them up, and prepare them likea Duxelles (No. 223).</p>
		<p>Add to this Duxelles half of its bulk of very smooth sausage-meat.</p>
		<p>Open the morels on one side; fill them with the preparedforcemeat, and set them on a buttered dish, opened side nether-most.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle with fine raspings, and use plenty of melted butter;cook for twenty minutes in a moderate oven, and serve thedish as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="2083" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MORILLES à la POULETTE</h3>
		<p>Cook them as described under No. 2080, and add them to aPoulette sauce (No. 101), together with their cooking-liquorreduced.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a pinch of choppedparsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2084" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MORILLES SAUTEES</h3>
		<p>After having thoroughly washed the morels, dry them wellin a towel, and halve or quarter them according to their size.</p>
		<p>Season them with salt and pepper, and saute them withbutter in an omelet-pan, over a sufficiently fierce fire, to avoidthe exudation of their vegetable moisture. Dish them in atimbale; squeeze a few drops of lemon juice over them, andsprinkle them with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2085" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOURTE de MORILLES</h3>
		<p>Cook the morels as explained under No. 2080, and drainthem well.</p>
		<p>Reduce their cooking-liquor by a quarter, and add to ittwo tablespoonfuls of very thick cream and one oz. of butterper lb. of morels.</p>
		<p>Heat this sauce without boiling it, toss the morels in it, andset them in a tourte crust, or merely in the centre of a crown ofpuff-paste, lying on a dish.</p>
		<p>Morels prepared in this way may also be served in a Vol-au-vent crust (No. 2390).</p>
		<h3 id="2086" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSERONS, ORONGES, GIROLES</h3>
		<p>These varieties of esculent fungi are not much liked inEngland.</p>
		<p>The best way to prepare them is to toss them quickly inbutter.</p>
		<h3 id="2087" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRIONNE (Chow-chow)</h3>
		<p>This excellent vegetable, which has only become known quiterecently, is beginning to be appreciated by connoisseurs. It isin season from the end of October to the end of March—thatis to say, at a time when cucumbers and vegetable marrows areover. It greatly resembles these last-named vegetables, andis prepared like them, while the recipes given for cardoons mayalso be applied to it.</p>
		<h3 id="2088" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHICORY, ENDIVE AND BELGIAN CHICORY(Chicoree Frisee, Escarole, Endive)</h3>
		<p>Three kinds of chicory are used for cooking, viz: —</p>
		<p>1. Curled chicory, improperly termed “Endive” inEngland.</p>
		<p>2. Flemish chicory, which is genuine endive in its primitivestate, i.e., grown in the open air. It greatly resembles Escarole.</p>
		<p>3. Brussels chicory, or the Belgian kind; obtained fromcultivating the root of Flemish chicory in the dark.</p>
		<p>This last kind is quite different from the first two, both withregard to its quality and its culinary treatment, and it will bedealt with later under the name of “Endive.”</p>
		<h3 id="2089" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHICOREE à la CR^ME</h3>
		<p>Parboil the chicory for ten minutes in plenty of boilingwater. Cool it; press the water out of it, and chop it up.</p>
		<p>Cohere it with four and one-half oz. of pale roux per twolbs. of chicory; moisten with one quart of consomm£; seasonwith salt and a pinch of powdered sugar, and braise in theoven, under cover, for one and one-half hours.</p>
		<p>Upon withdrawing it from the oven, transfer it to anothersaucepan; add three-fifths pint of cream and two oz. of butter,and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2090" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAIN de CHICOREE</h3>
		<p>Braise the chicory as described above.</p>
		<p>Upon withdrawing it from the oven, mix with it (per lb.)five stiffly-beaten eggs; put it into an even, buttered mould,and set to poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Before unmoulding the “loaf,” let it rest awhile, that themiddle may settle. Turn out just before serving, and coverwith a cream sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2091" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CHICOREE</h3>
		<p>Braise the chicory, and rub it through a sieve. Mix it withone-third of its bulk of smooth mashed potatoes with cream;heat; add butter away from the fire, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<p>638 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="2092" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de CHICOREE</h3>
		<p>Braise about one-half lb. of chicory, keeping it somewhatstiff, and rub it through a sieve. Add to it the yolks of threeeggs, also two oz. of grated Parmesan and the whites of threeeggs, beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Dish in a buttered timbale; sprinkle with grated Parmesan,and cook after the manner of an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This souffle of chicory may also be cooked in smallcases, and it makes an excellent garnish for large pieces ofveal or ham.</p>
		<h3 id="2093" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHICOREE à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Cut the chicory into twTo-inch lengths; parboil it; cool it,and then proceed for the rest of the operation as describedunder No. 2089—the only difference being that it is notchopped.</p>
		<h3 id="2094" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENDIVES OR BRUSSELS CHICORY</h3>
		<p>Whatever be the purpose for which they are intended, en-dives should always be cooked preparatively as follows: —</p>
		<p>After having washed and cleaned them, put them in a well-tinned saucepan containing (per three lbs. of endives) a liquorprepared from the juice of a lemon, a pinch of salt, one oz.of butter, and one-fifth pint of water. Cover the saucepan;boil quickly, and complete the cooking on the side of ihe firefor from thirty to thirty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Endives may thus be served plain, and constitute a veryfavourite vegetable or garnish. They may accompany allRelev^s of butcher’s meat.</p>
		<p>Some cardoon recipes may also be applied to them, moreparticularly a la Mornay, a la Crbme, and a la Milanaise—allof which suit them admirably.</p>
		<h3 id="2095" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CABBAGES (Choux)</h3>
		<p>From the culinary standpoint, cabbages may be divided intoseven classes, as follow's: —</p>
		<p>1. White cabbages: used almost solely in the preparationof sauerkraut.</p>
		<p>2. Red cabbages: used as a vegetable, as a hors-d’oeuvre,or as a condiment.</p>
		<p>3. Round-headed or Savoy cabbages: specially suited tobraising and the English method of cooking.</p>
		<p>4. Scotch kale and spring cabbages: always prepared inthe English fashion.</p>
		<p>5. Cauliflowers and broccoli: the flower of these is most</p>
		<p>commonly used, but the leaves are cooked in the English waywhen they are tender.</p>
		<p>6. Brussels sprouts.</p>
		<p>7. Kohlrabi: the roots of these may be dished as turnips,and the leaves cooked in the English way, provided they beyoung and tender.</p>
		<h3 id="2096" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">WHITE CABBAGE5 (Choux Blancs)</h3>
		<p>In an extreme case, these cabbages may be braised like thegreen Savoys, but they are usually too firm, and they are there-fore only used in the preparation of sauerkraut.</p>
		<h3 id="2097" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUERKRAUT (Choucroute)</h3>
		<p>If the sauerkraut be somewhat old, set it to soak in coldwater for a few hours. It is best, however, to avoid thismeasure, if possible, and to use only fresh sauerkraut.</p>
		<p>When about to cook it, drain it, if it has been soaked, andpress all the water out of it. Then pull it to pieces in sucha way as to leave no massed leaves; season it with salt andpepper, and put it into a braising-pan lined with slices of bacon.Add, for ten lbs. of sauerkraut, three quartered carrots, threemedium-sized onions, each stuck with a clove, a large faggot,three oz. of juniper berries and one-half oz. of peppercornscontained in a canvas bag, six oz. of goose dripping or lard,and one lb. of blanched breast of bacon, the latter to be with-drawn after one hour’s cooking.</p>
		<p>Moisten, just enough to cover, with white consomm^; coverwith slices of bacon; boil, and then cook in the oven for fivehours with lid on.</p>
		<p>To serve Sauerkraut.—Withdraw the vegetables, the faggot,and the juniper berries, and set the sauerkraut in a timbale,after having well drained it.</p>
		<p>Surround it with thin slices of ham, rectangles of bacon,and some poached Frankfort or Strasburg sausages.</p>
		<p>Red Cabbages (Choux Rouges)</p>
		<h3 id="2098" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOUX ROUGES à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Quarter the cabbages, suppress the outside leaves and thestumps, and cut the trimmed leaves into a fine julienne. Seasonwith salt, pepper, and nutmeg; sprinkle with vinegar, and putthis julienne into a well-buttered earthenware cocotte. Coverand cook in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>When the cooking is three-parts done, add four peeled andquartered russet apples and a tablespoonful of moist or pow-dered sugar.</p>


		<p>Take note that the cooking must be gentle from start tofinish, and that the only moistening should be the vinegar.</p>
		<h3 id="2099" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MARINADED RED CABBAGES FOR HORS = d’(EUVRECut the cabbages into a small julienne as above, and put</h3>
		<p>them into a bowl or deep dish. Sprinkle with table salt, andleave to macerate for two days, stirring frequently the while.</p>
		<p>Then drain, and put them into a pot with garlic cloves,peppercorns, and one bay leaf. Cover with raw vinegar, orthe latter boiled and cooled, and leave to marinade for a dayor two.</p>
		<p>This marinaded cabbage forms an excellent adjunct to boiled</p>
		<p>beef.</p>
		<p>Choux Verts Pommes (Savoy Cabbages)</p>
		<h3 id="2100" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRAISED CABBAGE</h3>
		<p>Quarter the cabbage; parboil and cool it.</p>
		<p>Defoliate the quarters; suppress the outside leaves and themidribs of the remaining leaves; season with salt and pepper,and put the cabbage in a saucepan garnished with slices ofbacon, and containing one quartered carrot, one onion stuckwith a garlic clove, one faggot, two-thirds pint of consomm^,and three tablespoonfuls of stock fat per two lbs. of cabbage.Cover with slices of bacon; boil, and then braise gently for twohours.</p>
		<h3 id="2101" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Plainly boil or steam the cabbqge. Press all the water outof it, between two plates, and cut it into lozenges or squares.</p>
		<h3 id="2102" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU FARCI</h3>
		<p>Take a medium-sized round-headed or Savoy cabbage;parboil it; cool it, and suppress its stump. Slightly open outits leaves, and insert between them raw or cooked mince-meat, combined with chopped onion and parsley, and highlyseasoned. Reconstruct the cabbage, pressing it closely to-gether; wrap it in slices of bacon; string it, and braise itgently for three hours with stock and stock fat.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, drain the cabbage; remove the stringand the slices of bacon; set it on a dish, and cover it with afew tablespoonfuls of the braising-liquor, cleared of all grease,reduced, and thickened with some half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<p>Send what remains of the braising-liquor separately.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The preparation is improved if the mince-meat withwhich the cabbage is stuffed be combined with a quarter of itsbulk of pilaff rice and the same quantity of foie-gras fat.</p>
		<h3 id="2103" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOU-FASSUM PROVENCAL</h3>
		<p>Parboil and cool the cabbage as above; remove the outerlarge leaves, and set them on a net.</p>
		<p>Upon this litter of cabbage leaves lay the following pro-ducts, mixed: —</p>
		<p>The inside leaves of the cabbage, chopped up and seasoned;one-half lb. of ciseled and blanched white of a leek; one andthree-quarter lbs. of sausage-meat; six oz. of lean bacon, cutinto dice and frizzled; one chopped onion, fried in butter; twochopped tomatoes; a crushed clove of garlic; three oz. ofblanched rice and four oz. of fresh, young peas.</p>
		<p>Gather up the ends of the net, and close it in such a way asto reconstruct the cabbage.</p>
		<p>Cook it in mutton broth or in ordinary stock for three andone-half or four hours.</p>
		<p>Serve the sou-fassum plain, on a round dish.</p>
		<h3 id="2104" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—A</h3>
		<p>Parboil, cool, and thoroughly drain the cabbage. Removeas many large leaves as there are balls of stuffed cabbage re-quired, and, if the leaves be too small, use two for each ball.</p>
		<p>Chop up the remains of the cabbage; season them with saltand pepper; put a small portion of them on each of the leaves;close the latter in the shape of balls, and set them one by onein a saut^pan.</p>
		<p>Then proceed, for the cooking, as directed under “BraisedCabbage.”</p>
		<p>210s—CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—B</p>
		<p>Prepare the cabbage as above; insert into the centre of eachball a portion of smooth pork forcemeat, the size of a pigeon’segg, and braise in the same way.</p>
		<h3 id="2106" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CABBAGES FOR GARNISH.—C</h3>
		<p>Parboil the necessary quantity of cabbage leaves, in accord-ance with the number of balls required. Cool them; spreadthem out; garnish the middle of each with one tablespoonfulof pilaff rice, mixed with foie-gras pur^e, and close up theleaves to form small packets.</p>
		<p>Braise as in the case of No. 2104.</p>
		<h3 id="2107" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SCOTCH KALE (Choufrise), SPRING CABBAGE (Chouxde Printemps), BROCCOLI LEAVES, TURNIP-TOPS</h3>
		<p>These various kinds of greens are prepared in the Englishway, as described above, or they may be prepared with butter,like Brussels sprouts. The two above-mentioned modes ofpreparation are the only ones that suit them.</p>
		<p>T T</p>


		<h3 id="2108" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI(Chou-fleur et Broccoli)</h3>
		<p>Broccoli differs from cauliflower in the colour of its flowerand the arrangement of the parts of the latter. In thebroccoli the flower is of a deep violet. English broccoli neverreach the size of those grown in the South of France.</p>
		<p>Many do not even grow to a head, while their flowers—thesize of hazel-nuts—are scattered among the interstices of thesurrounding leaves.</p>
		<p>Cauliflowers and large broccoli allow of the same treatment.</p>
		<h3 id="2109" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU-FLEUR à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Cut the cauliflowers into bunches; remove the small leaveswhich are attached, and cook the cauliflower in salted water.</p>
		<p>Thoroughly drain; set the bunches in a timbale, reconstruct-ing the cauliflower in so doing, or on a dish covered with afolded napkin, and serve a cream sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2110" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU-FLEUR AU GRATIN</h3>
		<p>Having well drained the cauliflower, dry it in butter for afew minutes; mould it in a bowl, and pour a few tablespoonfulsof Mornay sauce into it.</p>
		<p>Coat the bottom of a dish with the same sauce, and turn outthe cauliflower on the dish; completely cover with Mornaysauce; sprinkle with grated cheese mixed with raspings; bedewwith melted butter, and set the gratin to form.</p>
		<h3 id="2111" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU-FLEUR à la MILANAISE</h3>
		<p>Set the cauliflower on a buttered dish sprinkled with gratedcheese. Also sprinkle the cauliflower with cheese; add a fewpieces of butter, and set the gratin to form.</p>
		<p>On taking the dish out of the oven, sprinkle the cauliflowerwith nut-brown butter, and serve immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="2112" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOU-FLEUR à la POLONAISE</h3>
		<p>Thoroughly drain the cauliflower, and set it on a buttereddish.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle it with chopped, hard-boiled egg-yolks and choppedparsley, mixed. When about to serve, bedew with nut-brownbutter, in which one-half oz. of fine bread-crumbs (per threeoz. of butter) should have been fried.</p>
		<p>21,3—CAULIFLOWER WITH VARIOUS SAUCES</p>
		<p>Cook the cauliflower in salted water. Drain it thoroughly,and set it in a timbale. Serve at the same time either a sauce-boat of Melted Butter, a Butter, a Hollandaise, or a Mousselinesauce, &amp;c.</p>
		<h3 id="2114" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CHOU-FLEUR dite à la DUBARRYCook the cauliflower in salted water; drain it well; rub itthrough tammy, and combine the resulting pur^e with onequarter of its bulk of somewhat firm, mashed potatoes withcream. Heat; add butter away from the fire, and dish in atimbale.</h3>
		<p>Brussels Sprouts (Choux de Bruxelles)</p>
		<h3 id="2115" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOUX de BRUXELLES A d’ANGLAISECook them in salted water; drain them well, and dish themon a drainer or in a timbale.</h3>
		<h3 id="2116" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOUX de BRUXELLES à la CREMECook the sprouts; drain them well without cooling them;stew them in butter, and chop them up. Then combine themwith as much fresh cream as possible.</h3>
		<h3 id="2117" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOUX de BRUXELLES SAUTESCook them, and, after having thoroughly drained them,throw them into an omelet-pan containing some very hot butter.Toss them until they are nicely frizzled; dish them in a tim-bale, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley.</h3>
		<h3 id="2118" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOUX de BRUXELLES AU BEURRECook them, keeping them somewhat firm, and drain withoutcooling them.</h3>
		<p>Put them into a sautdpan; season them with salt and pepper;add two oz. of butter (per lb. of sprouts) cut into small pieces;cover, and stew in the oven for one-quarter hour.</p>
		<h3 id="2119" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CHOUX de BRUXELLES dite FLAMANDEThree-parts cook the sprouts; drain them well without cool-ing them, and complete their cooking by stewing them inbutter. Rub them through tammy, and add to the resultingpuree one-third of its bulk of mashed potatoes.</h3>
		<p>Heat, add butter away from the fire, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2120" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SEA KALE (Chou Marin)This is one of the best and most delicate of English vege-tables.</h3>
		<p>It is trimmed with great care, washed, and then tied intobunches of from five to six plants, and these are plainly cookedin salted water.</p>
		<p>All cardoon recipes, and sauces given for asparagus, maybe applied to sea kale.</p>
		<p>T T 2</p>
		<p>644 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="2121" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUCUMBER AND VEGETABLE MARROW(Concombres et Courgettes)</h3>
		<p>Though of different shapes, these two vegetables allow ofalmost the same treatment when they are cooked. They areespecially used as garnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="2122" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CONCOMBRES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Peel, and cut the cucumber to shapes resembling olives;parboil and drain these pieces. This done, three-parts cookthem in butter; moisten with boiling cream, and finish thecooking in reducing the cream. At the very last moment adda little Bechamel sauce with the view of slightly thickening thepreparation, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2123" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CONCOMBRES GLACES</h3>
		<p>After having shaped them like large garlic cloves, quicklyparboil them. This done, treat them as directed under“Carottes glac^es,” and roll them sufficiently in their cooking-liquor, reduced to the consistence of a thick syrup, to thoroughlycoat them with it.</p>
		<h3 id="2124" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CONCOMBRES FARCIS.—A</h3>
		<p>Cut the cucumbers into two-inch lengths; peel, parboil, anddrain them. Then hollow them out to form small, round cases;set them side by side in a sautepan, and cook them in butter.When they are three-parts cooked, fill them with a raw, chickenforcemeat, effecting this operation by means of a piping-bag.The forcemeat should be slightly moulded in the cucumbercases.</p>
		<p>Complete the cooking of the cucumber, gently, while poach-ing the forcemeat.</p>
		<h3 id="2125" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CONCOMBRES FARCIS.—B</h3>
		<p>Peel the cucumbers; split them open lengthwise, and emptythem by means of a root-spoon. This done, parboil and drainwithout cooling them.</p>
		<p>Garnish each half-cucumber, level with the edges, with achicken forcemeat, prepared with frangipane, and combinedwith a third of its weight of Duxelles. Reconstruct thecucumbers by placing the halves one against the other; wrapthem each in a slice of bacon, and then in a piece of muslin,and finally string them. This done, braise them in the usualway. When they are cooked, remove their wrappings, andcut them into roundels the thickness of which is determined bythe size of the piece of which they are the adjuncts.</p>
		<h3 id="2126" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STACHYS (Crosnes du Japon)Whatever be their mode of preparation, stachys must becleaned, parboiled, and kept firm, and cooked in butter withoutcolouration.</h3>
		<h3 id="2127" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROSNES A LACRSMEAfter having parboiled the stachys and three-parts cookedthem in butter, moisten with boiling cream, and complete theircooking while reducing the cream. Add a little thin, freshcream at the last moment, and dish in a timbale.</h3>
		<h3 id="2128" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROSNES SAUTES AU BEURREAfter having parboiled, drained, and dried the stachys, putthem in an omelet-pan containing some very hot butter, andtoss them over a fierce fire, until they are well frizzled. Dishin a timbale, and sprinkle moderately with chopped parsley.</h3>
		<h3 id="2129" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROSNES AU VELOUTECompletely cook the stachys in salted water. Drain them,and cohere them with the required quantity of Velout6 flavouredwith mushroom essence.</h3>
		<h3 id="2130" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROQUETTES de CROSNESHaving cooked the stachys in salted water, and kept themsomewhat firm, thoroughly drain them and mix them with avery reduced Allemande sauce, in the proportion of one-fifthpint per lb. of stachys. Spread this preparation on a buttereddish, and cool. Now cut this preparation into portions weigh-ing about two oz.; shape these portions like balls, pears, quoits,or otherwise, dip them in beaten eggs, and roll them in veryfine bread-crumbs.</h3>
		<p>Plunge these croquettes into very hot fat five or six minutesbefore serving; drain them on a piece of linen; salt moderately,and dish on a napkin with very green, fried parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2131" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de CROSNESCook the stachys in salted water, keeping them somewhatfirm, and add thereto four oz. of quartered potatoes per lb. ofstachys.</h3>
		<p>As soon as they are cooked, drain the stachys and thepotatoes; rub them through a sieve, and dry the purde over avery fierce fire. Add the necessary quantity of milk to bringthe pur£e to its proper consistence; heat; add butter away fromthe fire, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2132" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SPINACH (Epinards)Spinach should only be prepared at the last moment, if pos-sible.</h3>
		<p>After having parboiled it in plenty of boiling salted water,</p>


		<p>cool it, press out all its contained water, and, according to cir-cumstances, either chop it up or rub it through a sieve.</p>
		<p>If it has to be served with the leaves left whole, merely drainit on a sieve, without either pressing or cooling it.</p>
		<h3 id="2133" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EPINARDS A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cook it after having carefully shredded it; drain it well,and dish in a timbale without cooling.</p>
		<h3 id="2134" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EPINARDS à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Having chopped up or rubbed the spinach through a sieve,put it into a saut^pan with two oz. of butter per lb., and dry itover a fierce fire.</p>
		<p>Now add the quarter of its bulk of cream sauce to it, andsimmer gently for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale when about to serve, and sprinkle thesurface with fresh cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2135" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EPINARDS AU GRATIN'</h3>
		<p>Dry the spinach as above in three oz. of butter per lb., andthen, in the same proportion, add two and one-half oz. of gratedcheese.</p>
		<p>Set on a buttered gratin-dish; sprinkle copiously withgrated cheese and melted butter, and set the gratin to form ina fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2136" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EPINARDS à la VIROFLAY</h3>
		<p>Spread some large leaves of blanched spinach on a napkin,and in the middle of each lay a subric, the substance of whichshould have been combined with very small croutons of bread-crumb fried in butter. Wrap the subrics in the spinach leaves;cover with Mornay sauce; sprinkle with grated cheese and meltedbutter, and set to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2137" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUBRICS d’EPINARDS</h3>
		<p>Dry the spinach in butter as described above, and add to itper lb. of spinach (away from the fire) one-sixth pint of veryreduced Bechamel sauce; two tablespoonfuls of thick cream;one egg and the yolks of three, well beaten; salt, pepper, andnutmeg.</p>
		<p>Make a sufficient quantity of clarified butter very hot in anomelet-pan.</p>
		<p>Take up some of the preparation of spinach by means of aspoon, and let the contents of the latter drop (propelled by thefinger) into the butter. Proceed thus in the making of thesubrics, and take care that they do not touch. »When a minute</p>
		<p>has elapsed, turn them over with a spatula or a fork, that theirother sides may colour.</p>
		<p>Set on a dish or in a timbale, and serve a cream sauceseparately.</p>
		<h3 id="2138" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREPES aux EPINARDS</h3>
		<p>Parboil some well-shredded spinach; dry it in butter; seasonit, and add to it an equal quantity of Yorkshire-pudding paste(No. 1943).</p>
		<p>Cook this preparation in a small, well-buttered omelet-panor in deep tartlet-moulds.</p>
		<p>N.B.—These spinach pancakes constitute an excellent gar-nish for Relev^s of Beef, Veal, and Ham.</p>
		<h3 id="2139" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE aux EPINARDS</h3>
		<p>Make a composition after the directions given under No.2092. Spread this composition in two or three layers, and seton each of the latter a litter of well-cleaned and soaked anchovyfillets, arranged to form a lattice. Finish with a layer of spinachshaped like a dome, and set thereon two crossed rows of anchovyfillets. Cook after the manner of an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<h3 id="2140" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFL&amp; aux EPINARDS aux TRUFFES</h3>
		<p>Proceed as directed in the preceding recipe, but substituteanchovy fillets for some fine slices of truffle.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Both these spinach souffles may be served either asvegetables, in which case they are moulded in large timbales,or as garnishes, when they are dished in small cassolettes ofappropriate size.</p>
		<p>They are very delicate preparations, which may be variedby watercress souffle—prepared in the same way.</p>
		<h3 id="2141" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FEUILLES de VIGNE FARCIES OU DOLMAS</h3>
		<p>(Stuffed Vine Leaves)</p>
		<p>Provided the vine-leaves be very tender, they may serve inthe preparation of the following garnish:—Suppress theirstalks; parboil the leaves; drain them well, and arrange threeor four at a time in the form of a circular tray, in the centreof which lay a tablespoonful of pilaff rice to which some foie-gras pur£e has been added. This done, draw the ends of theleaves over the rice, so as to enclose it and to form regularballs of equal size.</p>
		<p>Put these balls, well-pressed, one against the other in asaufflpan, the bottom of which should be garnished with slicesof bacon; cover with thin slices of bacon; moisten just enoughto cover, with good consomm^; boil, and then braise gently.</p>
		<h3 id="2142" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TUBEROUS FENNEL (Fenouil Tubereux)</h3>
		<p>This vegetable is not very well known in England, where itis sold only by the leading merchants of early-season vege-tables. It is prepared like the cardoons and the marrows.</p>
		<h3 id="2143" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BROAD BEANS (Feves)</h3>
		<p>Broad beans should be shelled just before being cooked, andit is quite the rule to peel them. Boil them in salted watercontaining a bunch of savory, the size of which should be inproportion to the quantity of broad beans. When they arecooked and drained, add the leaves of savory (chopped) to them.</p>
		<h3 id="2144" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FEVES AU BEURRE</h3>
		<p>Having well-drained and peeled the broad beans, toss themover a fierce fire to dry them, and then finish them, away fromthe fire, with three oz. of butter per lb. of beans.</p>
		<h3 id="2145" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FEVES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>After having dried and peeled the broad beans, cohere them(per lb.) with three tablespoonfuls of thick, fresh cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2146" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de FEVES</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for pur£e of peas. This pur^e con-stitutes a very delicate garnish, which is particularly well suitedto ham.</p>
		<h3 id="2147" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GOMBOS</h3>
		<p>This vegetable—so common in America and the East—isonly very rarely used in England, where, however, it is nowbeginning to be better known.</p>
		<p>There are two kinds of Gombos: the long and the roundkind. The latter is also called Bamia or Bamies. Both kinds areprepared after the same recipes.</p>
		<h3 id="2148" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GOMBOS à la CREME</h3>
		<p>After having trimmed them, parboil them in salted waterand drain them. Then cook them in butter, and, just beforeserving them, cohere them with a cream sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2149" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GOMBOS POUR GARNITURES</h3>
		<p>Parboil the gombos until they are two-thirds cooked. Drainthem well, and complete their cooking in the braising-liquor ofthe piece they are to accompany.</p>
		<p>If they are to garnish a poulet saute, complete their cookingin some thin veal gravy.</p>
		<h3 id="2150" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HOP SPROUTS (Jets de Houblon)</h3>
		<p>The eatable part is separated from the fibrous by breakingoff the ends of the sprouts, as in the case of asparagus or sprew.</p>
		<p>After having washed them in several waters, cook them in saltedwater containing, per every quart, the juice of one half-lemon.</p>
		<p>Hop sprouts may be prepared with butter, cream, velout6,&amp;c. When served as a vegetable, they are invariably accom-panied by poached eggs, which are laid in a crown round themand alternated by comb-shaped croutons fried in butter.</p>
		<p>Haricot-Beans (Haricots Blancs)</p>
		<h3 id="2151" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HARICOTS BLANCS A d’AMERICAINE (Lima Beans)</h3>
		<p>Cook the beans as described under No. 274. But add tothe prescribed ingredients one-half lb. of lean bacon per pintof dry beans.</p>
		<p>When they are cooked and well drained, mix them with thebacon cut into dice, and cohere them with some good tomatosauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2152" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HARICOTS BLANCS AU BEURRE</h3>
		<p>Having well drained the haricot-beans, season them withsalt and pepper and cohere them with two oz. of butter per lb.of cooked beans. Dish in a timbale and sprinkle with choppedparsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2153" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HARICOTS BLANCS à la BRETONNE</h3>
		<p>Drain them well and cohere them with a Bretonne sauce, inthe proportion of one-third pint of sauce per lb. of cookedharicot-beans. Dish in a timbale with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2154" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de HARICOTS BLANCS dite SOISSONNAISE</h3>
		<p>Rub the haricot-beans through a sieve while they are burn-ing-hot. Add to the pur£e (per lb. thereof) three oz. of butter;dry it over a very fierce fire, and then add some milk to it, tobring it to its proper consistence.</p>
		<h3 id="2155" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAGEOLETS (Haricots Flageolets)</h3>
		<p>These beans are used more especially fresh; but, when theyare out of season, recourse is often had to preserved or driedflageolets.</p>
		<p>They are prepared in the same way as haricot-beans. Theirpur^e, which is very delicate, is known under the name of“Pur£e Musard,” and it is particularly suitable for the gar-nishing of mutton. It is also used as a thickening ingredientin the pur6e of French beans, and nothing can equal it for thepurpose; for, not only is it an unctuous thickening medium, butits flavour is peculiarly adapted to the throwing into relief ofthat of the French beans.</p>

		<h3 id="2156" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RED BEANS (Haricots Rouges)</h3>
		<p>Red beans are cooked in salted water with one-third lb. oflean bacon, one pint of red wine, one carrot, one onion stuckwith a clove, and one faggot per quart of beans. The baconshould be withdrawn as soon as cooked. These beans arecohered by means of manied butter, and they are then mixedwith the bacon, which is cut into dice and frizzled in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2157" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRENCH BEANS (Haricots Verts)</h3>
		<p>French beans are among the greatest vegetable delicacies;but they have to be prepared with the utmost care.</p>
		<p>Their quality is such that they are almost always good, inspite of faulty preparation—so common in their case; but, whenthey are cooked with care, no other vegetable can surpass themin perfection of flavour. They should be taken quite fresh, andthey should not be cooked too long. They are best when theyseem a little firm to the teeth, without, of course, being in theleast hard.</p>
		<p>They must not be cooled when cooked; they should only besauted over the fire with the view of causing the evaporation oftheir moisture.</p>
		<p>After having seasoned them with salt and pepper, add tothem (per lb.) about three oz. of very fresh butter, cut intosmall pieces; saute them so as to effect their leason, andstraightway serve them.</p>
		<p>Do not add chopped parsley to French beans, unless it bevery tender and gathered and chopped at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2158" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HARICOTS PANACHES</h3>
		<p>This consists of French beans and flageolets, in equal quan-tities, cohered with butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2159" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">pur£e de haricots verts</h3>
		<p>Cook the French beans in salted water; drain them well, andstew them in butter for eight or ten minutes. Rub themthrough a fine sieve, and mix the resulting pur£e with half itsbulk of very creamy, flageolet pur£e.</p>
		<p>Lettuces (Laitues)</p>
		<h3 id="2160" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LAITUES BRAISI§ES AU JUS</h3>
		<p>After having parboiled, cooled, and pressed the water outof them, tie them together in twos or threes, and braise themas directed under No. 275. This done, cut them in two, unfoldthe end of each half, and set them on a dish, in the form of acrown; alternating them with heart-shaped croutons fried inbutter. Or, merely dish them in a timbale.</p>
		<p>Coat them with the reduced braising-liquor combined withsome thickened veal gravy.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Braised lettuces may also be stuffed after the mannerdescribed under No. 2106.</p>
		<h3 id="2161" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LA1TUES à la MOfiLLEBraise and dish the lettuces as above.</h3>
		<p>Upon the turban of lettuces, set a crown of large slices ofpoached marrow, and coat with a moderately thick butteredgravy.</p>
		<h3 id="2162" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LAITUES FARCIESParboil, cool, and press the lettuces.</h3>
		<p>This done, open them in the middle without touching theirstems, and garnish them with good forcemeat, combined withhalf its bulk of dry Duxelles (No. 223). Reconstruct the let-tuces; string them; braise them, and dish them as directedunder No. 2160.</p>
		<h3 id="2163" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LAITUES FARCIES POUR GARNITURE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as directed under Nos. 2104 to 2106.</p>
		<h3 id="2164" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LAITUES à la CRfeMEProceed as directed under No. 2089.</h3>
		<h3 id="2165" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de LAITUESProceed as directed under No. 2139.</h3>
		<p>Lentils (Lentilles)</p>
		<p>Lentils are cooked as directed under the “preparation ofdry vegetables” (No. 274).</p>
		<h3 id="2166" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LENTILLES AU BEURRE</h3>
		<p>Carefully drain the lentils; dry them by tossing them overthe fire, and cohere them with butter in the proportion of twooz. of the latter per lb. of lentils.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a little chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2167" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de LENTILLESProceed as for the pur^e of haricot-beans.</h3>
		<h3 id="2168" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VERONIQUE (Laver)As this vegetable is sold already cooked at English markets,it is only necessary to add enough good Espagnole sauce toit, when heating it, to make a properly consistent pur^e.</h3>
		<h3 id="2169" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MAIZE (Ma'is)Take the maize when it is quite fresh and still milky, andcook it either in steam or salted water; taking care to retainthe leaves on the ears. When cooked, the leaves are drawn</h3>

		<p>back so as to represent stalks, and the ears are bared if theybe served whole. This done, set the ears on a napkin, andsend a hors-d’oeuvre dish of fresh butter to the table withthem.</p>
		<p>If the maize has to be grilled, put the ears on a grill in theoven, and, when they have swollen and are of a golden colour,withdraw the grains and set the latter on a napkin. Sometimes,too, the ears are served whole.</p>
		<p>When maize is served as an accompaniment, the grains areseparated from the stalk and cohered with butter or cream,exactly like peas.</p>
		<p>Failing fresh maize, excellent preserved kinds are to befound on the market.</p>
		<h3 id="2170" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de MAIS à la CRFME</h3>
		<p>Cook the maize in water or steam; rub it quickly throughtammy; put it into a saucepan with a small piece of butter, andquickly dry it.</p>
		<p>This done, add sufficient fresh cream to this pur^e to make asomewhat soft paste. Thicken this paste with the yolks of threeeggs, per lb. of pur^e, and combine it with the whites of foureggs beaten to a stiff froth. Mould and cook after the mannerof an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<h3 id="2171" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de MAIS AU PAPRIKA</h3>
		<p>Before rubbing the maize through a sieve, add to it twotablespoonfuls of chopped onion fried in butter, and a largepinch of paprika per lb. of maize. Proceed for the rest of theoperation as in the case of No. 2170.</p>
		<p>N.B.—These two souffles are served as a garnish and maybe cooked either in a timbale or in small cassolettes. Theyconstitute excellent adjuncts to large, poached fowls.</p>
		<h3 id="2172" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHESTNUTS (Marrons)</h3>
		<p>Slightly split open the shell on the convex sides of thenuts, and put them in the oven for from seven to eight minutes,on a tray containing a little water, that they may be shelled withease.</p>
		<p>Or, split them open in the same way; put them in smallquantities at a time in a frying-basket, and plunge them intovery hot fat. Peel them while they are still quite hot.</p>
		<h3 id="2173" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STEWED CHESTNUTS</h3>
		<p>As soon as they are peeled, cook them in enough consomm£to just cover them, and add half a stick of celery per lb. ofchestnuts.</p>
		<p>If they are intended for the stuffing of a goose or a turkey,keep them somewhat firm.</p>
		<h3 id="2174" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRAISED AND GLAZED CHESTNUTS</h3>
		<p>Take some very large chestnuts, and dip them in hot fat inorder to peel them. Then set them in one layer, one againstthe other in a sautdpan. If they were heaped, only a poorresult could be obtained.</p>
		<p>Moisten them, just enough to cover, with strong veal stock,and stir them as little as possible while they are cooking, soas to avoid breaking them.</p>
		<p>When they are three-parts cooked, reduce the moistening,and gently roll the chestnuts in the glaze resulting from thisreduction, that they may be covered with a brilliant coating.</p>
		<p>Chestnuts prepared in this way serve more particularly asa garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="2175" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de MARRONS</h3>
		<p>Having thoroughly peeled the chestnuts, cook them in whiteconsomm6, with a celery stalk as in the case of No. 2173, andone-half oz. of sugar per lb. of chestnuts. Continue cookinguntil they may be easily crushed; rub them through tammy,and treat the pur£e as directed in the case of the precedingones.</p>
		<h3 id="2176" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TURNIPS (Navets)</h3>
		<p>Whether served as vegetables or as a garnish, turnips areprepared like carrots. They may, therefore, either be servedglazed, or “&amp; la Creme,” &amp;c.</p>
		<p>They may also be served stuffed, after the following re-cipes: —</p>
		<h3 id="2177" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STUFFED TURNIPS.—A</h3>
		<p>Take some round, medium-sized turnips, fairly equal in size.</p>
		<p>Peel them, and, in so doing, shape them nicely; then, by meansof a round fancy-cutter, cut them deeply at their base, pressingthe instrument into the pulp.</p>
		<p>This done, thoroughly parboil and empty them.</p>
		<p>With the withdrawn pulp, prepare a pur£e, to which add anequal quantity of mashed potatoes. Garnish the turnips withthis pur£e, and shape the visible portion of the latter dome-fashion.</p>
		<p>Set the stuffed turnips in a sautepan, and complete theircooking in butter, taking care to baste them frequently.</p>
		<h3 id="2178" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STUFFED TURNIPS.—B</h3>
		<p>Prepare the turnips as above; but stuff them with a pre-paration of semolina cooked in consomm^ and combined withgrated Parmesan.</p>

		<p>Complete the cooking as directed in the preceding recipe.N.B.—Proceeding in the same way, turnips may be stuffedwith spinach, chicory, and even with farinaceous vegetables orrice, kept very creamy. All these garnishes are at once sightlyand excellent.</p>
		<h3 id="2179" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de NAVETS (Turnip Puree)</h3>
		<p>Slice the turnips and cook them in a little butter, salt, sugar,and the necessary amount of water. Rub through tammy, andthicken the resulting pur£e with only just the required quantityof very good mashed potatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="2180" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TURNIP-TOPS</h3>
		<p>Young turnip-tops are very much liked in England as aluncheon vegetable. They should be prepared like “Chouxverts cooked a I’anglaise.”</p>
		<p>Onions (Oignons)</p>
		<h3 id="2181" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STUFFED ONIONS</h3>
		<p>Take some medium-sized, mild, Spanish onions; cut themat a point one-quarter of their height from the top, and parboilthem thoroughly.</p>
		<p>Empty them, leaving only a wall one-third in. thick; chopup the withdrawn parts, and mix them with an equal quantityof Duxelles (No. 225).</p>
		<p>Garnish the emptied onions with this preparation; completetheir cooking by braising them, and glaze them at the lastmoment, simultaneously with the formation of the gratin.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Proceed in the same way for onions stuffed withspinach, Rizotto, or semolina, &amp;c., as suggested under Nos.2177 and 2178.</p>
		<p>Onions may also be garnished with a souffle preparation ofspinach, tomatoes, chicory, &amp;c. Herein lies scope for a greatvariety of excellent and uncommon garnishes.</p>
		<h3 id="2182" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRIED ONIONS</h3>
		<p>Cut them into roundels one-fifth in. thick; separate the rings;season them with salt and pepper; dredge them and fry them invery hot oil.</p>
		<p>Drain on a piece of linen and salt slightly.</p>
		<p>Onions prepared in this way are used particularly as anaccompaniment.</p>
		<h3 id="2183" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GLAZED ONIONS</h3>
		<p>For the preparation without colouration: Peel some smahonions of equal size without grazing them. Set them to cook</p>
		<p>in enough white consomm^ to almost cover them, and two oz.of butter per pint of consomm£.</p>
		<p>At the last moment roll them in their cooking-liquor, reducedto a glaze.</p>
		<p>For the preparation with colouration: Cook the onions verygently in butter, with a pinch of powdered sugar, so that thecooking and the colouring may be effected together.</p>
		<h3 id="2184" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE d’OIGNONS, dite SOUBISE</h3>
		<p>See No. 104, in the chapter on sauces.</p>
		<h3 id="2185" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SORREL (Oseille)</h3>
		<p>Having shredded the sorrel and washed it in several waters,set it to cook gently in a little water. This done, thoroughlydrain it on a sieve and mix it with a pale roux, consisting oftwo oz. of butter and one oz. of flour. Add one and one-quarterpints of consommd, salt, and a pinch of sugar to it, and braiseit in the oven for two hours.</p>
		<p>Then rub it through tammy; thicken it with the yolks ofsix eggs or three whole eggs beaten to a stiff froth and strainedthrough a strainer. Heat, and finish with one-sixth pint ofcream and five oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with strong, veal stock.</p>
		<h3 id="2186" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">OXALIS</h3>
		<p>Cook this in boiling salted water after having well cleanedand washed it. It may then be prepared “k la Creme,”stuffed, or “au Gratin.”</p>
		<p>Oxalis pur£e is called Purde Br^silienne, and is prepared inthe same way as turnip puree.</p>
		<h3 id="2187" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SWEET POTATOES</h3>
		<p>Swreet potatoes are generally served, baked in their skins,and accompanied by fresh butter. They may also be preparedaccording to the majority of potato-recipes, especially thefollowing: —</p>
		<p>Sautees, Gratinees, Mashed, Duchesse, &amp;c.</p>
		<p>They may also be fried; but, in that case, they should beserved the moment they are ready, for they soften very quickly.</p>
		<p>Finally, they may be prepared souffle-fashion, after thedirections given under “Souffle de Pommes de Terre.”</p>
		<h3 id="2188" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PEAS (Petits Pois)</h3>
		<p>Whatever be the treatment to which peas are to be subjected,always take them very green and freshly gathered, and shellthem only at the last minute. Peas are one of the vegetablesmost prone to lose their quality through want of care. If pre-</p>

		<p>pared with pains, the delicacy of their flavour is incomparable;but the slightest neglect on the part of the operator rendersthem savourless and commonplace.</p>
		<h3 id="2189" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cook them quickly in salted boiling water; drain them, anddry them by tossing them over a fierce fire. Dish them in atimbale, and serve some pats of very fresh butter separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2190" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS AU BEURRE</h3>
		<p>As soon as the peas are cooked, drain them and toss themover a fierce fire, to dry. Then season them with a pinch ofpowdered sugar, and cohere them, away from the fire, withbutter, in the proportion of three oz. per pint of peas.</p>
		<h3 id="2191" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS à la BONNE-FEMME</h3>
		<p>Fry twelve oz. of small onions and four oz. of breast ofbacon, cut into dice and blanched in butter; add one-half oz. offlour to the latter; cook the roux for a moment; moisten withone-half pint of consomm£ and boil.</p>
		<p>Put one quart of freshly-shelled peas into this sauce; addthe onions and the bacon, together w'ith a bunch of parsley;and cook, reducing the sauce to half in so doing.</p>
		<h3 id="2192" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS à la FLAMANDE</h3>
		<p>Prepare one-half lb. of new carrots as though they were tobe glazed.</p>
		<p>When half-cooked, add two-thirds pint of freshly-shelledpeas to them. Complete the cooking of the two vegetablestogether, and, at the last moment, add butter away from thefire.</p>
		<h3 id="2193" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS à la FRANCAISE</h3>
		<p>Take a saucepan, of a size a little larger than would be neces-sary to just hold the following products, and put into it onequart of freshly-shelled peas; a faggot containing the heart ofa lettuce, two sprays of parsley, and two of chervil; twelvesmall onions, four oz. of butter, one-third oz. of salt, and two-thirds oz. of loaf-sugar. Mix the whole together until it formsa compact mass, and place in the cool until ready for cooking.Add three tablespoonfuls of water, w'hen about to cook the peas,and cook gently with lid on.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, withdraw the faggot; cisel the lettuce;add it to the peas, and cohere the whole with butter, away fromthe fire.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Raw, ciseled lettuce may be added to the peas; but,as various tastes must be allowed for, it is better to insert the</p>
		<p>lettuce whole, and to mix it with the peas afterwards, if it beso desired. The lettuce may also be quartered and laid on thepeas without being mixed with them.</p>
		<h3 id="2194" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PETITS POIS à la MENTHE</h3>
		<p>Cook the peas in salted water, together with a bunch of freshmint.</p>
		<p>Then prepare them in the English way or “au Beurre,” andlay a few parboiled mint leaves upon them when serving.</p>
		<p>219s—PUR^E de POIS FRAIS, dite SAINT-GERMAIN</p>
		<p>Cook the peas with just enough boiling water to cover them,and season it with one-half oz. of salt, and one-sixth oz. of sugarper quart. Add a lettuce and a few parsley leaves (tied to-gether). When the peas are cooked, drain them; and reducetheir cooking-liquor while they are being rubbed through asieve.</p>
		<p>Work the pur^e with four oz. of fresh butter per quart, andfinally add to it the cooking-liquor, reduced almost to a glaze.</p>
		<h3 id="2196" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOULDED PEASE PUR^E FOR GARNISH</h3>
		<p>Prepare the pur^e as above; but keep it a little creamier. Mixwith it, per quart, two whole eggs and the yolks of three, beatenand strained through muslin. With this preparation, fill somedariole- or baba-moulds, according to the piece for which thetimbales are intended, and poach them in a bain-marie for fromtwenty to twenty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Remember to let them stand for five minutes before un-moulding them.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Timbales of haricot-beans, flageolets, or lentil pur£e,are prepared similarly.</p>
		<h3 id="2197" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAPSICUM OR PIMENTOS (Poivrons doux)</h3>
		<p>The capsicums used in cookery are of various kinds: theChilian and Cayenne kinds (Chili and Cayenne peppers) whichhave a strong, burning taste, are only used as condiments.</p>
		<p>The large or mild capsicums, green, red, or yellow, are usedmore particularly as garnishes. Although the difference intheir colouration is accompanied by a difference of quality,' theyare not easily distinguished in this respect; and, although thelarge, red Spanish capsicums are the best, the other varietiesmay be treated in the same way as the former.</p>
		<p>Whatever be the kind of capsicums used, either grill orscald them in order to skin them, and clear them of their seeds.According to the purpose they are intended for, they are eithercut up or left whole.</p>
		<p>U U</p>
		<p>658 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>219S—PIMENTOS FARCIS</p>
		<p>For this purpose take some small, green, carrot-shaped cap-sicums.</p>
		<p>Remove their stems, after having skinned them; empty them,and half-fill them with half-cooked, pilaff rice.</p>
		<p>Then set them in a saut^pan, and carefully braise them withexcellent stock.</p>
		<h3 id="2199" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CAPSICUMS FOR GARNISHING</h3>
		<p>For this purpose, the large red, Spanish capsicums are best.Braise them when they are peeled, and, when cooked, cutthem up as the requirements may suggest.</p>
		<h3 id="2200" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de PIMENTOS</h3>
		<p>Braise some large, red capsicums, with two-thirds of theirweight of rice. When the whole is well cooked, rub it througha sieve, and add butter to the extent of two oz. per quart of thepreparation.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This purde is particularly well suited to poached fowlsand white meats, and it is well to keep it thin.</p>
		<h3 id="2201" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POTATOES (Pommes de Terre)</h3>
		<p>Ordinary potatoes are rarely of good quality in England,and they do not lend themselves as well as certain Continentalvarieties do to the various culinary uses to which this valuabletuber may be put.</p>
		<p>The very best kinds of potato are almost unknown in Eng-land, and the Dutch and Vitelotte potatoes have to be imported.</p>
		<h3 id="2202" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Turn the potatoes to the shape of large garlic cloves, andcook them in salted water or steam. They accompany moreespecially boiled fish.</p>
		<p>The English method is to cook them without salt.</p>
		<h3 id="2203" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE ANNA</h3>
		<p>Cut them to the shape of cylinders; slice these into thinroundels; wash them, and dry them in a piece of linen.</p>
		<p>Set these roundels in circles on the bottom of the mouldproper to this potato preparation, or in a well-buttered thick-bottomed saut^pan; let them overlap one another, and let thelay of each circle be reversed.</p>
		<p>Season; spread a coat of butter upon the first layer, andproceed in the same way with a second layer.</p>
		<p>Make five or six layers in this way, seasoning and spread-ing butter over each.</p>
		<p>Cover the utensil; cook in a good oven for thirty minutes;</p>
		<p>turn the whole over, if necessary, to equalise the colouring;turn out upon a saucepan-lid, to drain away the butter, and thentilt the whole on to a dish.</p>
		<h3 id="2204" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES ANNA FOR GARNISHINGEither dariole- or baba-moulds may be used for this purpose;but they should be tinned copper ones if possible. After havingthoroughly buttered them, garnish them with thin roundels ofpotato, cut to the diameter of the moulds, seasoned, and setone upon the other. Set the moulds on a tray containingenough very hot fat to reach half-way up to their brims, andcook in a very hot oven for twenty-five minutes.</h3>
		<p>Turn out just before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2205" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE BERNY</h3>
		<p>Add chopped truffles to some “Croquette” paste (No. 219),in the proportion of two oz. of the former to one lb. of thelatter; and divide up this preparation into two-oz. portions.Mould these to shapes resembling apricots; dip them in beateneggs (No. 174), and roll them in almonds cut into the thinnestpossible splinters. Plunge the potato balls into hot fat five orsix minutes before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2206" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la BOULANGERS</h3>
		<p>This preparation has been given in various recipes (see No.</p>
		<h3 id="1307" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">).</h3>
		<h3 id="2207" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE BYRONPrepare the required amount of “Pommes Macaire” (No.2228), and cook in butter in a small frying-pan. Dish; sprinklecopiously with cream and grated cheese, and set to glazequickly.</h3>
		<h3 id="2208" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE CHATEAUTurn them to the shape of large olives; season them; cookthem gently in clarified butter, that they may be golden andvery soft; and, just before serving, sprinkle them moderatelywith chopped parsley.</h3>
		<h3 id="2209" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la CREMEVitelotte or new kidney potatoes are needed for this prepara-tion.</h3>
		<p>Cook them in salted water; peel them as soon as this is done,and cut them into rather thick roundels. Put them in a sautd-pan; moisten, enough to cover them, with boiling cream;season, and reduce the cream.</p>
		<p>At the last moment, finish with raw cream.</p>
		<p>U U 2</p>
		<p>66o</p>

		<h3 id="2210" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROQUETTES de POMMES de TERRE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the necessary quantity of “Croquette” paste (No.219), and divide it into two-oz. portions. Roll these to theshape of corks or pears; treat them a Vanglaise, and put theminto very hot fat, five or six minutes before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2211" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROQUETTES de POMMES de TERRE à la DAUPHINE</h3>
		<p>Take the required amount of “Pommes Dauphine” pre-paration (No. 220); divide it into two-oz. portions; mould theseto the shape of corks; treat them a Vanglaise, and fry them likeordinary croquettes.</p>
		<h3 id="2212" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la DUCHESSE</h3>
		<p>Use the same preparation as for No. 2210. Mould the por-tions to the shape of small cottage-brioches, galettes or smallloaves, or shape them by means of the piping-bag. Arrangethem on a buttered tray; gild them with beaten egg, and colourthem in a fierce oven for seven or eight minutes before servingthem.</p>
		<h3 id="2213" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE DUCHESSE AU CHESTER</h3>
		<p>Use the same preparation as for No. 2210, and combine itwith two oz. of grated Chester per lb. Mould it to the shapeof very small galettes; set these portions on a buttered tray;gild them with beaten eggs; cover each with a thin slice ofChester, and set them in the oven for seven or eight minutesbefore serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2214" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE FONDANTES</h3>
		<p>Cut the potatoes to the shape of large, elongated olives, andlet each weigh about three oz. Gently cook them in butter, ina saut^pan, and take care to turn them over.</p>
		<p>When they are cooked, withdraw them, so as to slightlyflatten them with a fork without breaking them. Drain awaytheir butter; return them to the saut£pan with three oz. of freshbutter per every two lbs. of their weight, and cook them withlid on until they have entirely absorbed the butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2215" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE EN ALLUMETTES</h3>
		<p>Trim the potatoes square, and then cut them into smallrods, of one-fifth in. sides. Put them in hot fat, and let themdry well before draining them.</p>
		<h3 id="2216" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE CHATOUILLARD</h3>
		<p>Trim the potatoes, and cut them into long even ribbons one-eighth in. thick. Treat these ribbons like “Pommes souffles”(see No. 2221).</p>
		<h3 id="2217" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHIPPED POTATOES</h3>
		<p>Cut the potatoes into thin roundels, by means of a specialplane; put them into cold water for ten minutes; drain them;dry them in linen, and fry them, keeping them very crisp.Serve them cold or hot, with game roasted in the English way.</p>
		<h3 id="2218" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE COLLERETTE</h3>
		<p>Turn the potatoes to the shape of corks, and cut them with aspecial knife which grooves them. Treat them like chippedpotatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="2219" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE PAILLES</h3>
		<p>Cut the potatoes into a long, thin julienne; wash them andthoroughly dry them on a piece of linen.</p>
		<p>Put them into hot fat; and, at the end of a few minutes,drain them in a frying-basket. Just before serving them,plunge them afresh into smoking fat, that they may be verycrisp; drain them on a piece of linen, and salt them moderately.</p>
		<h3 id="2220" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE PONT-NEUF</h3>
		<p>Trim the potatoes square, and cut them into rods of half-inchsides. Plunge them into hot fat, and leave them there untilthey are crisp outside and creamy in.</p>
		<p>This preparation represents the generic type of friedpotatoes.</p>
		<h3 id="2221" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE SOUFFLEES</h3>
		<p>Trim the potatoes square, and carefully cut them into slicesone-eighth inch thick. Wash them in cold water; thoroughlydry them, and put them into moderately hot fat. As soon asthe potatoes are in it, gradually heat the fat until they arecooked—which they are known to be when they rise to thesurface of the frying fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them in the frying-basket, and at once immerse themin fresh and hotter fat. This final immersion effects the puffing,which results from the sudden contact with intense heat.</p>
		<p>Leave the potatoes to dry; drain them on a stretched pieceof linen; salt them moderately, and dish them.</p>
		<h3 id="2222" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QRATIN de POMMES de TERRE à la DAUPHINOISE</h3>
		<p>Finely slice two lbs. of fair-sized Dutch potatoes. Put themin a basin, and add thereto salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, onebeaten egg, one and one-half pints of boiled milk, and four oz.of fresh, grated Gruyere.</p>
		<p>Thoroughly mix up the whole.</p>
		<p>Pour this preparation into earthenware dishes, rubbed withgarlic and well buttered; copiously sprinkle with grated</p>


		<p>Gruy6re; add a few pieces of butter, and cook in a moderateoven for from forty to forty-five minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="3223" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la HONGROISE</h3>
		<p>Fry four oz. of chopped onion in butter, together with acoffeespoonful of paprika. Add two peeled, pressed, and slicedtomatoes; two lbs. of potatoes, cut into somewhat thick roundels,and moisten, just enough to cover, with consomm6. Cook,while almost entirely reducing the moistening, and sprinkle withchopped parsley at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2224" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE GRATINEES</h3>
		<p>This preparation may be made in two ways as follows: —</p>
		<p>(1) Make a smooth potato purde; this done, put it into a deep,buttered gratin-d\sh; smooth its surface; sprinkle the latter withgrated cheese mixed with fine raspings; bedew with meltedbutter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven.</p>
		<p>(2) Bake some fine, well-washed, Dutch potatoes in the oven.As soon as they are cooked, open them lengthwise; withdrawtheir pulp; rub the latter through a sieve while it is still quitehot, and finish it after the manner of an ordinary pur£e.</p>
		<p>Fill the half-shells with pur£e; sprinkle the latter with gratedcheese and raspings; lay the half-shells on a tray, and set thegratin to form as above.</p>
		<p>On taking the potatoes out of the oven, dish them on anapkin, and serve them immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="2225" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE AU LARD</h3>
		<p>Frizzle in butter one-half lb. of breast of salted pork, cut intodice and blanched, and twelve small onions. Drain the baconand the onions; mix one oz. of flour with the butter; brown fora few minutes, and moisten with one and one-quarter pints ofconsomm6. Season with a pinch of pepper, and add two lbs.of medium-sized, quartered and well-trimmed potatoes, thebacon and the onions, and a faggot. Cover and cook gently.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle moderately with choppedparsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2226" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE LORETTE</h3>
		<p>Add some grated cheese to the preparation for “PommesDauphine,” in the proportion of one oz. of the former per lb. ofthe latter.</p>
		<p>Divide up this mixture into one and one-half oz. portions;mould these to the shape of crescents, and dredge them mode-rately.</p>
		<p>Plunge these crescents into very hot fat about six minutesbefore serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2227" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la LYONNA1SECut some peeled and plain-boiled potatoes into roundels, andtoss these in butter in a frying-pan. Likewise toss some slicedonions in butter, the quantity of the former measuring one-fourth of that of the potatoes. When the onions are of a nicegolden colour, add them to the sauted potatoes; season withsalt and pepper; saute the two products together for a fewminutes, that they may mix thoroughly, and dish them in atimbale with chopped parsley.</h3>
		<h3 id="2228" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MACAIREBake some Dutch potatoes in the oven. As soon as theyare done, empty them and collect their pulp on a dish; seasonit with salt and pepper, and work it with a fork; adding to it,the while, one and one-half oz. of butter per lb.</h3>
		<p>Spread this preparation in the form of a galctte on thebottom of an omelet-pan containing some very hot, clarifiedbutter, and brown it well on both sides.</p>
		<h3 id="2229" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MAIREPrepare these exactly like “Pommes k la Cr£me.”</h3>
		<h3 id="2230" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la MA1TRE-d’H6TEL</h3>
		<p>Cook some medium-sized Dutch potatoes in salted water;peel them; cut them into roundels while they are still quite hot,and cover them with boiling milk.</p>
		<p>Season them with salt and white pepper; completely reducethe milk, and dish them in a timbale with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2231" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MARQUISEMix some very reduced and very red tomato pur£e with thepreparation for “Pommes Duchesse,” in the proportion of threetablespoonfuls of the former per lb. of the latter.</h3>
		<p>Set this preparation on buttered trays (by means of a piping-bag fitted with a large, grooved pipe) in shapes resemblinghalf-eggs.</p>
		<p>Gild them slightly with beaten eggs, and set them in a some-what hot oven seven or eight minutes before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2232" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la MENTHECook some fair-sized new potatoes in the English w^ay, andadd a bunch of mint to them. Dish them in a timbale, and seta mint-leaf (from the bunch) upon each potato.</h3>
		<p>664 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="2233" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MIREILLE</h3>
		<p>Cut some medium-sized, raw potatoes into roundels. Seasonthem and saute them in butter. When they are ready, add tothem, per lb., four oz. of sliced artichoke-bottoms, tossed inbutter, and one and one-half oz. of truffle slices.</p>
		<p>Saute the whole so as to ensure a complete mixture, anddish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2234" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MIRETTE</h3>
		<p>Cut some raw potatoes into a julienne one-eighth inch wide,and cook them in butter, keeping them very creamy. Add tothem, per lb., two oz. of a julienne of truffles and three table-spoonfuls of melted meat glaze.</p>
		<p>Mix; dish in a timbale; sprinkle with grated Parmesan andmelted butter, and set to glaze quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="2235" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE MOUSSELINEPrepare a flawn-crust, baked without colouration.Meanwhile, bake a few Dutch potatoes in the oven; with-draw their pulp; season it with salt and white pepper, and workit over the fire with four oz. of butter and the yolks of two eggsper lb. of its weight. Add one-sixth pint of whisked cream, andset the preparation in the crust, shaping it like a dome. Deco-rate by means of a piping-bag, fitted with a grooved pipe, withsome of the preparation which should have been put aside;sprinkle with melted butter, and set to glaze quickly.</h3>
		<h3 id="2236" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE NOISETTES</h3>
		<p>Cut the potatoes, by means of a round spoon-cutter, intopieces the size of hazel-nuts. Season and cook them in butter,and take care to keep them nicely golden and creamy.</p>
		<h3 id="2237" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Prepare some “Pommes Noisettes” as above; but cut thema little smaller. When they are cooked, roll them in meltedmeat glaze, and sprinkle them with chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2238" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE PARMESANE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as directed under “Pommes au Chester”(No. 2213), but substitute Parmesan for the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="2239" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE PERSILLEES</h3>
		<p>Cook the potatoes in the English way, that is to say, boilthem plainly; drain them well, and roll them in melted butterand chopped parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2240" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE ROBERT</h3>
		<p>Prepare a composition of “Pomme Macaire,” and addthereto, per lb., three eggs and a large pinch of chopped chives.Cook in the frying-pan as for “Pomme Macaire.”</p>
		<h3 id="2241" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la ROXELANEBake six fine Dutch potatoes in the oven. Withdraw thepulp from their insides, and work it, together with one-third lb.of butter and four egg-yolks, and enough fresh cream to thin it.Complete with the whites of two eggs, beaten to a stiff froth.</h3>
		<p>Set this preparation in small timbales, made from briochesthe knobs of which have been removed, and the under halves ofwhich have been emptied of all crumb. Sprinkle with choppedtruffle, and bake in a mild oven as for a souffle.</p>
		<h3 id="2242" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la SAVOYARDEProceed as for No. 2222; but replace the milk by some con-somme.</h3>
		<h3 id="2243" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE à la SAINT-FLORENTIN</h3>
		<p>Prepare some “Pommes Croquettes” paste (No. 219).Combine therewith (per lb.) two oz. of chopped, lean ham.Roll the portions into the shape of corks; dip them in beateneggs, and roll them in vermicelli. This done, flatten so as togive them a rectangular shape, and fry them in very hot fat.</p>
		<h3 id="2244" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE SCHNEIDERProceed as directed under No. 2230; but for the milk sub-stitute some consomm6. Reduce in the same way, and finishwith butter, melted meat glaze, and chopped parsley.</h3>
		<h3 id="2245" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE SUZETTEPeel some fine, Dutch potatoes, and turn them to the shapeof eggs. Cut them flat at one end that they may stand upright,and bake them on a tray in the oven.</h3>
		<p>Open them like a boiled egg; put aside the pieces thus cutoff, and withdraw the pulp from their insides. Season this pulp,and work it; adding to it the while, per lb., two oz. of butter,two egg-yolks, a few tablespoonfuls of thick cream, and a littlesalpicon of the white of a chicken, tongue, truffles, and mush-rooms. Fill the potato-shells with this preparation; readjustthe covers, and set them in the oven for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing them from the oven, set the potatoes on adish, and glaze them with melted butter.</p>


		<h3 id="2246" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES de TERRE VOISIN</h3>
		<p>Prepare these exactly like “Pommes Anna,” but sprinkleeach layer of potato-roundels with grated cheese. The cookingis the same.</p>
		<h3 id="2247" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES NANA (For Garnishing)</h3>
		<p>Cut the potatoes into a julienne; season them, and mouldthem by heaping them into well-buttered, dariole-moulds. Cookthem, like “Pommes Anna” (for garnishing), on a tray con-taining some very hot fat.</p>
		<p>On taking them out of the oven, turn them out and sprinklethem with Chateau sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2248" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MASHED POTATOES</h3>
		<p>Peel and quarter some Dutch potatoes, and quickly cookthem in salted water. When they feel soft to the touch, drainthem; rub them through a sieve, and work the pur£e vigorouslywith three oz. of butter per lb. of potatoes. Then add, little bylittle, about one-half pint of boiling milk, in order to bring thepur£e to the required consistence. Heat without boiling, andserve.</p>
		<p>Remember that mashed potatoes should be only just cooked,and that if they be allowed to wait they lose all their quality.</p>
		<h3 id="2249" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QUENELLES de POMMES de TERRE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a composition as for “Pommes Duchesse,” and addthereto (per two lbs.) three whole eggs and one-third lb. offlour. Divide up the preparation into one and one-half oz.portions; mould these to the shape of corks or quoits, or mouldthem by means of a spoon, and set them in a buttered saut^pan.Poach them in salted water; drain them; set them on a buttereddish sprinkled with grated cheese; dredge with grated cheese;sprinkle with melted butter, and set the gratin to form.</p>
		<p>On taking the dish out of the oven, sprinkle the quenelleswith nut-brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2250" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de POMMES de TERRE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a pint of mashed potatoes with cream; add theretothe raw yolks of three eggs and their whites beaten to a stifffroth. Set in a buttered souffle saucepan, or in small porcelaincases, and cook like an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<p>Rice (Riz)</p>
		<h3 id="2251" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ AU BLANC (For Fowls and Eggs)</h3>
		<p>Wash one-half lb. of Carolina rice; put it into a saucepan;cover it with plenty of cold water; salt it, and parboil it forone-quarter hour.</p>
		<p>This done, drain it and put it into a saut^pan with two andone-half oz. of butter cut into small pieces. Mix with a fork;cover, and place in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2252" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ AU GRASParboil one-half lb. of Carolina rice; drain it; fry it in butter,and moisten it with twice as much white and rather fat con-somme as would be needed just to cover it. Set to boil, and thencook it gently in the oven for fifteen minutes.</h3>
		<h3 id="2253" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ à la GRECQUEPrepare some “Pilaff” rice. Add to it, per lb. of its weightone half-onion, chopped and fried in butter, together with twooz. of fat sausage-meat, divided into small portions, and two oz.of ciseled lettuce; cook the whole, and complete with one-quarterpint of peas, cooked “k la Frangaise,” and one and one-halfoz. of red capsicums cut into dice.</h3>
		<p>This garnish is mixed with the rice seven or eight minutesbefore serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2254" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ A d’INDIENNEParboil one-half lb. of Patna rice in salted water, for fifteenminutes; stirring it from time to time the while.</h3>
		<p>Drain it; wash it in several cold waters; lay it on a napkin,and set the latter on a tray or on a sieve. Dry for fifteenminutes in a steamer or in a very moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2255" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ PILAFF</h3>
		<p>Fry one chopped half-onion and one-half lb. of Carolina ricein two oz. of butter. Stir over the fire, until the rice is wellaffected all over; moisten with one quart of white consomm£;cover, and cook in a moderate oven for eighteen minutes.Transfer it to another saucepan as soon as it is cooked.</p>
		<h3 id="2256" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PILAFF RICE (For the Stuffing of Fowls)Pilaff rice is frequently used in stuffing fowls.</h3>
		<p>For this purpose, when it is cooked, it is combined (per quart)with a little cream, four oz. of foie-gras dice, and as muchtruffle, also in dice. The rice should only be three-parts cookedfor stuffings; for it completes its cooking inside the bird. Forthis reason the cream is added, that the rice may absorb itwhile its cooking is being completed.</p>
		<h3 id="2257" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZ PILAFF à la TURQUE</h3>
		<p>Prepare some pilaff rice as directed under No. 2255, and,while it is cooking, add to it enough saffron to make it of anice, golden colour. When cooked, add four oz. of peeled andconcassed tomatoes to it.</p>


		<h3 id="2258" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RIZOTTO à la PIEMONTAISE</h3>
		<p>Fry a medium-sized onion in butter, and add to it one-halflb. of Piedmont rice. Put the rice on the side of the stove;add some saffron to it and stir it until it is well saturated withbutter. Moisten the rice with about one quart of consomm^per lb. The consomm£ should be added to the rice in sevenor eight instalments, and as fast as it becomes absorbed, a freshsupply should be forthcoming. When adding the liquor, stirthe rice with a wooden spoon.</p>
		<p>Cook the rice under cover, and, to the resulting preparation,which should thus be creamy, add a few pieces of fresh butterand some grated Parmesan.</p>
		<p>The dish may be finished, either with shavings of whitetruffles or ham cut into dice.</p>
		<h3 id="2259" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SALSIFY or OYSTER PLANT (Salsifis)</h3>
		<p>There are two kinds of salsify :—the white and the black,which is also called “viper’s grass.”</p>
		<p>After having carefully scraped and washed it, cook it in ablanc. The same preparations suit the two kinds.</p>
		<h3 id="2260" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRIED SALSIFY</h3>
		<p>After having thoroughly drained it, cut it into three andone-half lengths, and put these on a dish.</p>
		<p>Season with salt and pepper; add lemon juice, a few drops ofoil, some chopped parsley, and leave to marinade for fromtwenty-five to thirty minutes, taking care to toss the salsify fromtime to time. This done, drain the lengths of salsify, dip themin some thin batter; plunge them in very hot fat, and drainthem when the batter is quite dry. Dish them on a napkin withfried parsley.</p>
		<p>N.B.—It is not absolutely necessary to marinade salsify; thequestion is one of taste.</p>
		<h3 id="2261" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SALSIFIS SAUTE</h3>
		<p>Cut it into two-inch lengths; dry them very well, and tossthese in butter in an omelet-pan, until they are of a nice goldencolour. Season, and dish in a timbale with fried parsley.</p>
		<h3 id="2262" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SALSIFIS à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Proceed as directed in the case of other vegetables preparedin this way.</p>
		<p>Tomatoes</p>
		<h3 id="2263" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GRILLED TOMATOES</h3>
		<p>Take some whole tomatoes, if possible; oil them copiously,and grill them gently.</p>
		<h3 id="2264" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOMATES FARCIES</h3>
		<p>If the tomatoes to be stuffed be large, cut them in twolaterally; if they be medium-sized or small, a lateral slice cutfrom their stem-ends is sufficient. In any case, press themslightly in order to exude their juice and seeds; season theminside with salt and pepper; set them on an oiled tray, and half-cook them in the oven.</p>
		<p>Finally, stuff them as their designation on the menu re-quires.</p>
		<h3 id="2265" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOMATES FARCIES AU GRATIN</h3>
		<p>Having prepared the tomatoes as above, stuff them withsomewhat stiff Duxelles; sprinkle with raspings and a few dropsof oil, and set the gratin to form in a hot oven.</p>
		<p>On taking the dish out of the oven, surround the tomatoeswith a thread of clear tomated half-glaze sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2266" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOMATES FARCIES à la PROVENCALE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the tomatoes as follows :—Cut them in two; removetheir seeds; season them, and place them, cut side undermost,in an omelet-pan containing very hot oil. Turn them overwhen they are half-cooked; cook them for a little while longer;lay them on a gratin-dish, and stuff them with the followingpreparation :—For six tomatoes, fry two tablespoonfuls ofchopped onion in oil; add four peeled, pressed, and concassedtomatoes, a pinch of chopped parsley, and a crushed clove ofgarlic, and cook under cover for twelve minutes. Completewith four tablespoonfuls of bread-crumbs, soaked in consomm£and rubbed through a sieve; two anchovies also rubbed througha sieve, and finish with some somewhat fat, braised-beef gravy.When the tomatoes are stuffed, sprinkle them with bread-crumbscombined with grated cheese; sprinkle with oil, and set thegratin to form.</p>
		<p>These tomatoes may be served either hot or cold.</p>
		<h3 id="2267" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOMATES FARCIES à la PORTUGAISE</h3>
		<p>Stuff the tomatoes with pilaff rice combined with a quarter</p>
		<p>of its volume of concassed tomatoes. Dish this rice in theshape of a regular dome, and sprinkle it with chopped parsley.</p>
		<p>N.B.—In addition to the above recipes, tomatoes preparedas already directed may also be garnished with minced chicken</p>


		<p>or lamb meat, or with scrambled eggs, sprinkled with gratedParmesan, and then set to glaze at the salamander.</p>
		<h3 id="2268" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOMATES SAUTEES à la PROVENCALE</h3>
		<p>Having halved, pressed, and seasoned the tomatoes, putthem, cut side undermost, in an omelet-pan containing very hotoil. Turn them over when they are half-cooked, and sprinklethem with a little chopped parsley, together with a mite ofgarlic, and some bread-crumbs. Place them in a moderateoven in order to finish their cooking, and dish the tomatoes themoment they are withdrawn from the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2269" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de TOMATES</h3>
		<p>See Tomato Sauce (No. 29).</p>
		<h3 id="2270" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de TOMATES à la NAP0L1TA1NE</h3>
		<p>Prepare one-half pint of very reduced tomato pur^e, andcombine therewith two oz. of grated Parmesan, two tablespoon-fuls of very stiff Bechamel sauce, and the yolks of three eggs.</p>
		<p>Add the three whites, beaten to a stiff froth, and spread thepreparation in layers in a buttered, souffle timbale; setting uponeach layer a litter of freshly-cooked macaroni, cohered withbutter and grated Parmesan. Cook like an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<p>Jerusalem Artichokes (Topinambours)</p>
		<h3 id="2271" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOPINAMBOURS A d’ANGLAISE</h3>
		<p>Cut the Jerusalem artichokes to the shape of large olives,and gently cook them in butter, without colouration. Seasonthem, and cohere them with a little thin Bechamel sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2272" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TOPINAMBOURS FRITS</h3>
		<p>Peel and cut the Jerusalem artichokes into thick slices.Cook these in butter; dip them in batter, and fry them at thelast moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2273" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUREE de TOPINAMBOURS</h3>
		<p>Peel, slice, and cook the Jerusalem artichokes in butter.Rub them through a sieve, and work the pur^e over the fire,with two oz. of butter per lb. Add enough mashed potatoes tothicken the preparation, and complete with a few tablespoonfulsof boiling milk.</p>
		<h3 id="2274" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE de TOPINAMBOURSProceed as for No. 2250.</h3>
		<p>Truffles (Truffes)</p>
		<p>Truffles are used especially as a garnish; but they may alsobe served as a vegetable or a hors-d’oeuvre.</p>
		<p>When so served, they should be prepared very simply; forthey require no refining treatment to make them perfect.</p>
		<h3 id="2275" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TRUFFES SOUS LA CENDRE</h3>
		<p>Take some large truffles, and clean them well. Season themwith salt and pepper and a few drops of liqueur brandy; com-pletely enclose them in a layer of patty paste, and bake themin the oven from twenty-five to thirty minutes.</p>
		<p>Serve them in their case of paste.</p>
		<h3 id="2276" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TRUFFES AU CHAMPAGNE</h3>
		<p>Take some fine, well-cleaned truffles; season them, and cookthem, with lid on, in champagne.</p>
		<p>This done, set them in a timbale, or in small silver sauce-pans.</p>
		<p>Almost completely reduce the champagne; add thereto alittle thin, strong, veal stock; strain the whole through muslin;pour it over the truffles, and place these on the side of the stovefor ten minutes without allowing the stock to boil.</p>
		<h3 id="2277" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TRUFFES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Cut one lb. of raw, peeled truffles into thick slices. Seasonthem with salt and pepper, and cook them very gently in twooz. of butter and a few drops of burnt liqueur brandy.</p>
		<p>Reduce to a stiff consistence one-half pint of cream withthree tablespoonfuls of Bechamel sauce; add some truffle cook-ing-liquor and the necessary quantity of cream; complete withtwo oz. of best butter; mix the truffles with this sauce, and servein a vol-au-vent crust.</p>
		<h3 id="2278" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TRUFFES à la SERVIETTE</h3>
		<p>Under this head are served “Truffes au Champagne,” therecipe for which is given above, but the champagne should bereplaced by Madeira.</p>
		<p>Dish them in a timbale, set in a napkin folded to representan artichoke. But it would be very much more reasonableto serve “Truffes h la cendre” under this head, serving themunder a folded napkin, as for “Pommes de terre en robe dechambre” (potatoes in their skins).</p>
		<h3 id="2279" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE de TRUFFES</h3>
		<p>Line a buttered timbale mould with ordinary patty paste.</p>
		<p>Garnish its bottom and sides with slices of bacon, and fill</p>
		<p>up the mould with raw, peeled truffles, seasoned with salt andpepper.</p>
		<p>Add a glassful of Madeira, two tablespoonfuls of palechicken or veal glaze; cover with a slice of bacon, and close upthe timbale, in the usual way, with a layer of paste.</p>
		<p>Gild with beaten eggs, and bake in a hot oven for fiftyminutes. When about to serve, turn out and dish on a napkin.</p>
		<p>Farinaceous Products</p>
		<h3 id="2280" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GNOCHI AU GRATIN</h3>
		<p>Prepare a “pate k choux” after recipe No. 2374, from thefollowing ingredients:—one pint of milk, a pinch of salt, anda little nutmeg, four oz. of butter, two-thirds lb. of flour, andsix eggs. When the paste is ready, combine with it four oz.of grated Parmesan. Divide this paste into portions the size ofwalnuts; drop them into boiling, salted water, and poach them.</p>
		<p>As soon as the gnochi rise to the surface of the water, andseem resilient to the touch, drain them on a piece of linen.</p>
		<p>Coat the bottom of a gratin-dish with Mornay sauce; set thegnochi upon the latter; cover them with the same sauce;sprinkle with grated cheese and melted butter, and set thegratin to form in a moderate oven for from fifteen to twentyminutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2281" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GNOCHI à la ROMAINE</h3>
		<p>Scatter two-thirds lb. of semolina over a quart of boilingmilk. Season with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and cook gentlyfor twenty minutes. Take the utensil off the fire; thicken thesemolina with the yolks of two eggs, and spread it on a moist-ened tray, in a layer one-half in. thick.</p>
		<p>When it is quite cold stamp it out with a round cutter,two in. in diameter. Set the gnochi in shallow, buttered tim-bales; sprinkle with grated Gruy^re and Parmesan, and witha little melted butter, and set the gratin to form.</p>
		<h3 id="2282" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GNOCHI de POMMES de TERRE</h3>
		<p>Cook two lbs. of potatoes in the English way. Drain themas soon as they are cooked, and work the pur£e, while it is veryhot, with one and one-half oz. of butter, two small eggs, twoegg-yolks, one-third lb. of flour, salt, pepper, and nutmeg.Divide up this preparation into portions the size of walnuts; rollthem into balls; press upon them lightly with a fork to givethem a criss-cross pattern, and poach them in boiling water.</p>
		<p>Drain them on a piece of linen; dish them in layers, sprink-</p>
		<p>ling some grated cheese between each layer; sprinklesome grated cheese over the top surface; bedew liberally withmelted butter, and set the gratin to form in a hot oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2283" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOQUES AU PARMESANPut into a previously-heated basin one-half lb. of vianiedbutter, and work the latter with salt, pepper, and nutmeg;adding to it, little by little, two eggs and two well-beaten egg-yolks, five oz. of flour, and the white of an egg, also beatento a stiff froth.</h3>
		<p>Divide up the preparation into portions the size of hazel-nuts; drop these portions into a saut^pan of boiling, saltedwater, and let them poach.</p>
		<p>Drain the noques on a piece of linen; dish them in a tim-bale; sprinkle them copiously with grated cheese and withnut-brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2284" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI</h3>
		<p>Under this head are included all tubular pastes from Spag-hetti, the size of which is not larger than thick vermicelli, tocanneloni, the bore of which is one-half in. in diameter.</p>
		<p>All these pastes are cooked in boiling water, salted to theextent of one-third oz. per quart. Macaroni, like other pastes ofa similar nature, should not be cooled.</p>
		<p>The most one can do, if the cooking has to be stopped at agiven moment, is to pour a little cold water into the saucepanand then to take it off the fire.</p>
		<h3 id="2285" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI A d’lTALIENNECook the macaroni in boiling water; completely drain it; putit into a saut^pan, and toss it over the fire to dry.</h3>
		<p>Season it with salt, pepper and nutmeg; cohere it with fiveoz. of grated Gruyere and Parmesan, in equal quantities, andtwo oz. of butter, cut into small pieces, per lb. of macaroni.Saute the whole well to ensure the leason, and dish in a timbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2286" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI AU GRATINPrepare the macaroni after No. 2285, adding to it a littleBechamel sauce; and set it on a buttered gratin-dish, be-sprinkled with grated cheese. Sprinkle the surface of the pre-paration with grated cheese and raspings, mixed, and withmelted butter, and set the gratin to form in a fierce oven.</h3>
		<h3 id="2287" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI AU JUSParboil the macaroni in salted water, keeping it somewhatfirm; drain it, cut it into short lengths, and simmer it in beef</h3>
		<p>x x</p>
		<p>braising-liquor, until the macaroni has almost entirely absorbedthe latter.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and sprinkle with a few tablespoonfulsof the same liquor.</p>
		<h3 id="2288" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI à la NANTUA</h3>
		<p>Having cooked, drained and dried the macaroni, cohere itwith crayfish cream, and mix therewith twenty-four crayfishes’tails per lb. of macaroni.</p>
		<p>Dish in a timbale, and cover the macaroni with a julienne ofvery black truffles.</p>
		<h3 id="2289" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI à la NAPOLITAINE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a beef estouffade with red wine and tomatoes; cookit for from ten to twelve hours, that it may be reduced to apur£e.</p>
		<p>Rub this estouffade through a sieve and put it aside.</p>
		<p>Parboil some thick macaroni, keeping it somewhat firm;drain it; cut it into short lengths, and cohere it with butter.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the bottom of a timbale with grated cheese; coverwith a layer of estouffade pur£e; spread a layer of macaroniupon the latter, and proceed in the same order until the timbaleis full. Serve the preparation as it stands.</p>
		<h3 id="2290" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACARONI aux TRUFFES BLANCHES</h3>
		<p>Prepare the macaroni as directed under No. 2285, and addto it six oz. of white Piedmont truffles (cut into thin shavings),per lb. of macaroni.</p>
		<p>Leave the preparation covered for five minutes and dish in atimbale.</p>
		<h3 id="2291" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NOODLES (Nouilles)</h3>
		<p>These are generally bought ready-made. If one wish toprepare them oneself, the constituents of the paste are:—onelb. of flour, one-half oz. of salt, three whole eggs, and five egg-yolks. Moisten as for an ordinary paste, roll it out twice on aboard, and leave it to stand for one or two hours before cuttingit up.</p>
		<p>All macaroni recipes may be applied to noodles.</p>
		<p>For “Nouilles &amp; l’Alsacienne,” it is usual, when the prepara-tion is ready in the timbale, to distribute over it a few rawnoodles sauted in butter and kept very crisp.</p>
		<p>Kache</p>
		<p>Kache is not a vegetable; but since this preparation hasappeared either as a constituent or an accompaniment of certain</p>
		<p>Russian dishes which occur in this work, I am obliged to referto it.</p>
		<h3 id="2292" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">KACHE de SEMOULE POUR COULIBIAC</h3>
		<p>Take some coarse, yellow semolina, and scatter it over threetimes its bulk of boiling consomm£. Cook it gently for twenty-five minutes; drain it on a sieve; spread it on a tray, and placeit in a moderate oven to dry. This done, rub it lightly througha coarse sieve with the view of separating the grains, and put itaside in the dry until wanted.</p>
		<h3 id="2293" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">KACHE de SARRASIN POUR POT AGES</h3>
		<p>Moisten one lb. of concassed, buckwheat with enough tepidwater to make a stiff paste; add the necessary salt, and put thispaste in a large Charlotte-mould. Bake in a hot oven for twohours. Then remove the thick crust which has formed uponthe preparation, and transfer what remains, by means of a spoon,to a basin. Mix therewith two oz. of butter while it is stillhot.</p>
		<p>Kache prepared in this way may be served in a special tim-bale. But it is more often spread in a thin layer on a butteredtray, and left to cool.</p>
		<p>It is then cut into roundels one in. in diameter, and these arerolled in flour and coloured on both sides in very hot, clarifiedbutter.</p>
		<h3 id="2294" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POLENTA</h3>
		<p>In a quart of boiling water containing one-half oz. of salt,immerse two-thirds lb. of maize flour, stirring the while witha spoon, that the two may mix. Cook for twenty-five minutes;add two oz. of butter and two and one-half oz. of grated Par-mesan. If the Polenta be prepared for a vegetable or a gar-nish, it is spread in a thin layer on a moistened tray. Whencold, it is cut into roundels or lozenges, which are first brownedin butter, dished, and then sprinkled with grated cheese andnut-brown butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2295" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE PIEMONTAIS</h3>
		<p>Boil one pint of milk with one-fifth oz. of salt; sprinkle on ittwo oz. of maize flour; mix well; cover, and cook in a mildoven for twenty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Then transfer the paste to another saucepan; work it withone and one-half oz. of butter and as much grated Parmesan;mix therewith one egg, two egg-yolks, and the whites of threeeggs beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Dish in a buttered timbale; sprinkle with grated cheese, andcook like an ordinary souffle.</p>
		<p>X X 2</p>
		<p>676 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="2295" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—SOUFFLE AU PARMESAN</h3>
		<p>Mix one lb. of flour and two and one-half pints of milk ina saucepan. Add a little salt, pepper and nutmeg, and set thepreparation to boil, stirring it constantly the while.</p>
		<p>As soon as the boil is reached, take the saucepan off thefire, and add one lb. of grated Parmesan, three oz. of butter,and ten egg-yolks. Rub the whole through tammy and thencombine with it the whites of ten eggs whisked to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Mould in a silver timbale, lined with a band of butteredpaper, and bake in the oven for from twenty to twenty-fiveminutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2296" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RAVIOLI</h3>
		<p>Whatever be their garnish, ravioli are always prepared in thesame way. The stuffings given below represent the most usualforms of garnish.</p>
		<p>STUFFING A</p>
		<p>Mix one-half lb. of finely-chopped, cooked chicken-meat;five oz. of cooked and crushed brains; three oz. of pressedwhite cheese; three oz. of chopped, pressed and blanchedspinach; three oz. of parboiled green borage; a pinch of greensweet basil; five oz. of grated Parmesan; two eggs; two egg-yolks; salt, pepper and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>STUFFING B</p>
		<p>Mix two-thirds lb. of well-cooked, cold and finely-choppeddaube of beef; two-thirds lb. of parboiled, pressed, and choppedspinach; one oz. of chopped shallots; five oz. of a pur6e ofcooked brain; two whole eggs, salt, pepper and nutmeg.</p>
		<p>STUFFING C</p>
		<p>Toss one-half lb. of chickens’ livers in butter; add to ittwo chopped shallots, a pinch of parsley, and a little crushedgarlic. Finely pound the livers, and add successively one-half lb. of parboiled, cooled and fresh spinach; two anchovyfillets; three oz. of butter; three eggs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, anda pinch of sweet basil. Rub the whole through a sieve.</p>
		<h3 id="2297" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE PREPARATION OF RAVIOLI</h3>
		<p>They may be made in various shapes as follows: —</p>
		<p>(1) Roll a piece of noodle paste to a thin layer and stamp itout with a grooved cutter, two and one-half in. in diameter.Moisten the edges of each roundel of paste; garnish the centre</p>
		<p>VEGETABLES AND FARINACEOUS PRODUCTS 677</p>
		<p>of each with a ball of one of the above stuffings, the size of ahazel-nut, and fold in slipper-form.</p>
		<p>(2) Roll the paste into a rectangle of four-in. sides; garnishwith stuffing, leaving a gap between the portions of the latter;moisten the edges of the paste, and close up by drawing thesetogether. Finally stamp out with a grooved, crescent-shapedfancy-cutter.</p>
		<p>(3) Prepare a square layer of paste; garnish it with lines con-sisting of portions of paste; leave a space of two in. between thelines. Moisten; cover with a second layer of paste, of thesame dimensions as the first, and divide up, by means of theroulette, into squares of two-in. sides. Whatever be the shapeof the ravioli, plunge them into a saucepan of slightly saltedboiling water; poach them for from eight to ten minutes, anddrain them.</p>
		<p>Set them on a buttered gratin-dish, sprinkled with gratedcheese; sprinkle them with good beef gravy; then again withgrated cheese, and set the gratin to form. Or, dish the ravioliin layers, sprinkling each layer with grated cheese and gravy.Complete with some grated cheese, and set the gratin to formin the usual way.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The ravioli may also be served, merely sprinkled withgrated cheese and nut-brown butter.</p>
	</body>
</html>