<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Entremets (Sweets)</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XX <span xml:lang="fr">Entremets</span> (Sweets)</h1>
		<p>Pastry, Confectionery, and Ices are so closely allied toCookery, and they are so surely its complements, that it isimpossible to omit them when dealing with Entremets, eventhough the latter be limited to the kind proper to the kitchen.</p>
		<p>However, these subjects, which could supply matter forvoluminous works, are too complex for it to be possible to copethoroughly with them here.</p>
		<p>I shall therefore confine myself to the expounding of theirfundamental principles and the essential operations relatingthereto, a knowledge of which is absolutely necessary for thesuccessful preparation of Kitchen Entremets and Ices. Thedirections given hereafter are certainly too inadequate to con-vert an ordinary cook into a pastry-cook, a confectioner, or a“glacier”; but they will at least admit of his carrying out acomplete dinner, if the necessity so to do should occur.</p>
		<p>Elementary Preparations of Pastry which may be Applied</p>
		<p>to Entremets</p>
		<h3 id="2338" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS ALMOND PREPARATIONS</h3>
		<p>It is important that one should have skinned, splintered, and chopped almonds.</p>
		<p>To Skin Almonds.—Throw them in a saucepan of boilingwater, place the utensil on the side of the fire without allowingthe boiling to continue, and let the almonds soak for sevenor eight minutes. As soon as the skin slips when pressingthem between one’s fingers, turn them out on to a strainer; coolthem in cold water, and skin them. This done, wash them incold water; drain them well; spread them on a very cleantray, and dry them in a mild oven.</p>
		<p>Splintered Almonds.—Having skinned and washed thealmonds, split them in two, and cut each half into five orsix splinters. Dry the latter in the drying-box, and placethem in the front of the oven for a while to colour slightly.</p>
		<p>They serve for nougat, and sometimes take the place ofpignolis.</p>
		<p>Chopped Almonds.—Having skinned the almonds, slightlydry them and chop them with a knife; rub them through acanvas sieve, the coarseness of which should be in accordancewith that required for the chopped almonds.</p>
		<p>Spread the latter on a tray covered with a sheet of paper, and dry them in the drying-box, stirring them from time totime the while.</p>
		<p>Grilled Almonds.—These are either splintered or choppedalmonds set to bake on a tray in a moderate oven. Be sureto stir them frequently, that they may colour evenly, and with-draw them when they are of a nice golden shade.</p>
		<p>Pralined Almonds.—Proceed as for grilled almonds, butsprinkle them frequently with icing sugar, which turns tocaramel under the influence of the heat of the oven, and swathesthe almonds in a pale-brown coat of sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2339" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS PREPARATIONS of FILBERTSAND HAZEL-NUTS</h3>
		<p>Filberts are a large kind of hazel-nut, generally coveredwith red skins.</p>
		<p>After having cracked and suppressed the shells, set the fil-berts on a dish, and place them in the front of the oven untiltheir skins are slightly grilled. They need then only be rubbedbetween the fingers in order to clear them of their skins.Chopped filberts are prepared like chopped almonds, and shouldbe included in the permanent “mise en place” of the pastrycook.</p>
		<h3 id="2340" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS BUTTERS</h3>
		<p>Softened Butter.—More particularly in winter, when it isvery hard, butter should be softened, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, thoroughly kneadedin a towel, to: —</p>
		<p>1. Extract the butter-milk, which is always present in moreor less large quantities.</p>
		<p>2. Make it sufficiently soft to mix with the various in-gredients of which the pastes are made up.</p>
		<p>Pomaded Butter.—After having well softened it as above, put it in a bowl or basin, previously rinsed with hot waterand thoroughly wiped. Work the butter with a spatula or awooden spoon until it acquires the consistence of a pomade—a necessary condition for certain of its uses.</p>
		<p>Clarified Butter.—In pastry, clarified butter is used moreespecially for the buttering of moulds. Put the butter to beclarified into a saucepan, and cook it over a very slow fire until</p>
		<p>(1) the caseous substances liberated in the cooking process haveaccumulated and solidified on the bottom of the saucepan; (2) itappears limpid, of a golden colour, and exhales a slight, nuttysmell.</p>
		<p>Strain it through muslin, and put it aside until required.</p>
		<h3 id="2341" class="formula">The Buttering and Glazing of Moulds</h3>
		<p>All moulds, large and small, should be buttered so as toensure the easy turning-out of cakes cooked in them. Clarified butter, owing to its purity, is the best for the purpose. It maybe applied with a brush, care being taken that all the insidesurfaces get uniformly covered with it. One unbuttered spotis sufficient to make a moulding stick, or to completely spoil acake.</p>
		<p>For certain cakes, chopped or splintered almonds aresprinkled in the mould. For others, especially biscuits, themoulds are flour-dusted—that is to say, a veil of very dry flouror fecula is allowed to settle on the layer of butter, which, atthe turning out, appears like a glazed crust upon the cake.</p>
		<h3 id="2342" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HOW TO BEAT THE WHITES of EGGS</h3>
		<p>The best utensil for the purpose is a copper or nickel basinin which the whisk may act at all points owing to the sphericalshape of the receptacle. Tinned or enamelled utensils set upa kind of greasiness which does not allow of one’s bringing thewhites to the stiffness necessary for some purposes.</p>
		<p>Begin whisking the whites gently, and draw them up withthe whisk until all their molecules have disaggregated and theybegin to stiffen. They may then be whisked until they aresufficiently stiff to be taken up bodily by the whisk.</p>
		<p>Preventive Means.—To facilitate the beating of whites ofeggs, there may be added to them at the start a pinch eitherof salt or alum per ten whites. When, towards the close of theoperation, the whites begin to granulate, owing to any one ofthe various causes, add immediately one tablespoonful ofpowdered sugar per ten whites, and then whisk briskly, torestore them to their normal state.</p>
		<h3 id="2343" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Vegetable Colouring Matters</h3>
		<p>Every pastry-cook’s stock should include a series of vegetable colouring matters, comprising carmine, liquid spinach green, yellow, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>When required, the blending of these colours yields theintermediate tones. The colours may be bought.</p>
		<p>Y V</p>
		<p>690 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<h3 id="2344" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">The Cooking of Sugar</h3>
		<p>From the state of syrup to the most highly-concentratedstate in which it is used in pastry sugar passes through variousstages of cooking, which are:—The small thread (2150 F.) andthe large thread (2220 F.), the small ball (236°F.) and the largeball (248°F.), the small crack (285°F.) and the large crack(3150 E*)* When the last state is overreached, the sugar hasbecome caramel (360°F.).</p>
		<p>Put the necessary quantity of loaf sugar in a small, coppersaucepan; moisten with enough water to melt it, and boil.Carefully remove the scum which forms, and which might causethe sugar to granulate.</p>
		<p>As soon as the sugar begins to move stiffly in boiling, itis a sign that the water has almost entirely evaporated, and thatthe real cooking of the sugar has begun.</p>
		<p>From this moment, with moistened fingers or a little pieceof moistened linen, take care to remove the crystallised sugarfrom the sides of the utensil, lest it makes the remaining portionturn.</p>
		<p>The cooking of the sugar then progresses very rapidly, andthe states of its various stages, coming one upon the other inquick succession at intervals of a few minutes, may be ascer-tained as follows: —</p>
		<p>It has reached the small-thread stage, when a drop of it heldbetween the thumb and the first finger forms small resistlessstrings when the thumb and finger are drawn apart.</p>
		<p>It has reached the large-thread stage, when, proceeding inthe same way, the strings formed between the parted finger andthumb are more numerous and stronger.</p>
		<p>From this moment recourse must be had to cold water inorder to ascertain the states of the sugar.</p>
		<p>When a few minutes have elapsed after the test for the large-thread state, dip the end of the first finger, first into coldwater, then into the sugar, and plunge it again immediatelyinto the bowl of cold water, which should be ready at hand.The sugar taken from the finger forms a kind of soft ball, andit is this state which is called the small ball.</p>
		<p>When, upon repeating the procedure, the sugar removedfrom the finger rolls into a firmer ball, the large-ball stage isreached.</p>
		<p>After the cooking has continued for a few seconds longer, the sugar lying on the finger peels off in the form of a thin, flexible film, which sticks to the teeth. This is the small-crackstage. Tests should then be made in quick succession, until</p>
		<p>the film taken from the end of the finger breaks “clean” inthe teeth, like glass. This is the large-crack state, the last ofthe cooking stages, and as soon as it has been reached theutensil should be taken off the fire, lest a few seconds moreturn the sugar to caramel.</p>
		<p>To prevent the granulating of the sugar, a few drops oflemon juice may be added to it; or, better still, a tablespoonfulof glucose per lb.</p>
		<h3 id="2345" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GLACE à l’ANCIENNEPut the required amount of icing sugar in a small saucepan, the quantity used being in proportion to the object to be glazed.</h3>
		<p>If it be flavoured with vanilla, orange^ or lemon, dilute itwith a little water, keeping it somewhat stiff; add some vanilla-flavoured sugar or grated orange-rind, and stir it up well fora few minutes. Then make it lukewarm, so that it may runeasily and dry quickly, and pour it over the object to be treated.</p>
		<p>For the above-mentioned flavours, an infusion of vanillaor orange-rind may be prepared, and this may serve in dilutingthe glaze. The flavours may also be used in the form ofessences, provided it be remembered that they are usually verystrong thus, and must be used with caution.</p>
		<p>If liqueur glazes are in question, such as Kirsch, Rum, Anisette, or Marasquin, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, the glaze is diluted with the liqueurand made lukewarm as directed above.</p>
		<h3 id="2346" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GLACE au FONDANTPreparation of the “Fondant.”—Put some loaf sugar intoa small saucepan, the quantity being in accordance with theamount of “Fondant” required.</h3>
		<p>Moisten with just enough water to melt the sugar, and setto cook as directed under “The Cooking of Sugar.”</p>
		<p>Stop the cooking precisely at 230°F. between the large-thread stage and the small-ball stage, and pour the sugar on amoderately-oiled marble slab. Let it half cool for a fewminutes; then, with a spatula, move it about well in all direc-tions, taking care that no portion of the sugar on the marbleis left untouched by the spatula, for any such portion wouldharden and form lumps in the Fondant.</p>
		<p>After ten to fifteen minutes’ work with the spatula, the sugarshould have become a white, slightly granulated paste. Heapthe latter together, and scrape the marble slab with the bladeof a strong knife. Carefully knead this paste (№2357) withthe palm of the hand until it is very thin and smooth, whereuponthe Fondant is ready for use.</p>
		<p>Y Y 2</p>
		<p>It need now only be heaped in a receptacle, covered with adamp cloth, and kept somewhat dry.</p>
		<p>To Glaze with “Fondant—Put the required amount of itinto a saucepan; work it over a slow fire for a while, in orderto soften it, and moisten it, little by little, with water whena dry flavour or an essence is used, or, otherwise, with theselected liqueur</p>
		<p>Warm slightly in order to make the glaze very liquid andto ensure its speedy drying, and pour it, at one tilt, over theobject to be glazed.</p>
		<p>With the help of some colour, the glaze is generally giventhe tint of the fruit which flavours it.</p>
		<h3 id="2346" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—SUCRE EN GLACE (Icing Sugar)</h3>
		<p>This is sugar strained through a silken drum-sieve. Thesugar strained through this silk has the delicacy of starch.At times it is used instead of Fondant for the glazing ofcakes, but it is mostly used for white and caramel glazings.For this purpose the sugar is held in a tin box, covered witha lid pierced with small holes, called a sugar dredger.</p>
		<p>To glaze white is to cover a cake, a fritter, or other objectwith a coat of icing sugar. This operation is effected by shak-ing the sugar dredger over the object to be glazed.</p>
		<p>To glaze with caramel is to cover a Souffle, a souffled omelet, fruit fritters, a custard, Pannequets, or other objects with a coatof icing sugar. By placing the sugar-coated object in fierceheat, a few minutes suffice to melt the sugar, which is con-verted into a brilliant covering of caramel.</p>
		<h3 id="2347" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUGAR GRAINS</h3>
		<p>These are used in pastry to border certain cakes, or to sur-round the sugared-paste bases on which cakes are set. For thispurpose the parts to which the sugar is expected to adheremust be besmeared with cooked apricot.</p>
		<p>To make them, roughly pound some loaf sugar, and sift thelatter first through a coarse strainer, and then through a finerone, according to the size the sugar grains are required to be.The powder will, of course, fall and leave the grains clean.</p>
		<h3 id="2348" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COLOURED SUGAR GRAINS</h3>
		<p>To colour sugar grains, spread them on a piece of paper, and add a drop of liquid vegetable-colouring or a very littlecoloured paste per tablespoonful of sugar. The amount ofcolouring matter may either be lessened or increased, accord-ing to the strength the shade is required to be.</p>
		<p>Rub the sugar in the hand to colour it evenly; dry it in a</p>
		<p>moderately warm drying-box, and keep it in the dry in well-closed boxes.</p>
		<h3 id="2349" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VANILLA SUGAR</h3>
		<p>The vanilla sticks which have served in preparing infusions</p>
		<p>still possess some flavour. Reserve them, therefore, for themaking of vanilla sugar.</p>
		<p>After having gently dried them in the drying-box, finelypound them with twice their weight of loaf sugar; sift througha silken sieve, and again pound the bits remaining on the silkof the sieve until every particle goes through. Keep the pre-paration in a well-closed box in the dry.</p>
		<h3 id="2350" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CANDIED FRUIT</h3>
		<p>These are used in the decoration of certain cakes, and asthe constituent ingredients of others.</p>
		<p>They comprise angelica, golden and green chinois, cherries, plums, red and white pears, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Candied fruit may be bought ready-prepared.</p>
		<p>235*— APPLE JELLY for DECORATING</p>
		<p>Quarter, peel, and core the apples (preferably russets), andthrow them, one by one, in a bowl of fresh water to preventtheir getting brown.</p>
		<p>Then put them in a copper basin with one and one-half pintsof water per two lbs. of apples, and cook them gently withouttouching them.</p>
		<p>This done, pour away their juice, and return it to the basintogether with two lbs. of sugar per quart. Boil; skim withgreat care, that the jelly may be clear, and cook over a fiercefire until the jelly has reached a stage which may be ascertainedthus:—(1) When on taking the skimmer out of the basin, thejelly adhering to it seems to mass itself towards the middleof the skimmer; or:—(2) When the jelly breaks up into largedrops, separated one from the other.</p>
		<p>Then take the jelly off the fire; add some carmine to it, drop by drop, until it acquires a rosy hue; strain it againthrough a fine piece of linen, that it may be perfectly limpid, and finally pour it into tin receptacles to cool.</p>
		<p>Put aside until wanted.</p>
		<h3 id="2352" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PRALIW</h3>
		<p>(1) If it be for the purpose of covering certain cakes, or forforming a glaze on a fruit entremet, prepare it thus:—Put thewhites of two eggs and three tablespoonfuls of icing sugar in asmall basin. Mix and stir briskly with a small, wooden spoon, until the paste becomes somewhat thick. Then, subject to the</p>
		<p>purpose for which it is intended, add a more or less largequantity of chopped almonds, according as to whether the pralinbe required thick or slightly liquid for spreading. Cover itwith a piece of white paper, moistened with white of egg, thatit may remain moist if kept for some time.</p>
		<p>(2) If it is to be added to a souffle preparation, to a souffledomelet, to a preparation of ice, or to a custard, it is a nougatpowder which is prepared as follows: —</p>
		<p>Gently melt one lb. of powdered sugar in a small saucepan, taking care not to let it acquire a deeper shade than old gold.Mix twenty oz. of dried almonds with it; turn the whole outon to the corner of a slightly-oiled marble slab (or on an over-turned saucepan-lid), and leave to cool. When the nougat isquite cold, pound it and rub it through a sieve.</p>
		<p>Pound and rub what remains in the sieve until the wholegoes through.</p>
		<p>Put the powder in a well-closed box, and place the latter ina dry place.</p>
		<h3 id="2353" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CURRANTS and SULTANAS</h3>
		<p>Sultanas and currants should always be at hand, ready andcleaned. To clean them, first dredge them and then rub themin a towel, closed to form a sort of purse. Now, turn them intoa sieve or colander, which shake vigorously, that the flour andthe detached stems may be eliminated; then examine them, one by one, to make sure that no stems remain.</p>
		<p>Currants should be examined with very particular care, assmall stones often get in among them.</p>
		<p>Put the currants and the sultanas asidef each in a box or adrawer.</p>
		<h3 id="2354" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ESSENCES and FLAVOURINGS</h3>
		<p>The various essences used in pastry are bought ready-made.The flavourings Consist of those products treated by infusion, such as vanilla; of grated or infused products, such as lemonand orange rinds; and liqueurs in general.</p>
		<p>Fruit juices only become flavours when a liqueur in keepingwith the fruit from which they were extracted has been addedto them.</p>
		<h3 id="2355" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GILDING PREPARATION</h3>
		<p>This consists of beaten eggs. Its purpose is to ensure thecolouration of certain cakes, whereon it is smeared by meansot a brush. In some cases this gilding may be combined witha little water, as, for instance, when the heat of the oven is too</p>
		<p>69 5</p>
		<p>fierce, and cakes are required of a light colour. In some cases, especially in that of small, dry cakes, it consists entirely ofegg-yolks diluted with a few drops of water.</p>
		<p>The Pastes</p>
		<h3 id="2356" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY SHORT PASTE</h3>
		<p>Sift one lb. of flour over the mixing-board; make a hollowin its midst, and put therein one-sixth oz. of salt, one-thirdpint of cold water, and one-half lb. of butter well softened—&gt;especially in winter. Mix the flour gradually with the butter andthe water; mass the whole a moment or two, and knead it (seeNo. 2357) twice. Then roll it up in a ball; wrap it in a pieceof linen that its surface may not dry, and put it aside in thticool.</p>
		<p>Remarks: A kneaded paste should be prepared either oneday, or at least a few hours, in advance, in order that it maylose that elasticity which it acquires from the kneading.</p>
		<p>Pastes, after they have rested awhile, are much more easilytreated, and bake a much more definite and lighter colour, thanthose that are used as soon as they are prepared.</p>
		<h3 id="2357" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE KNEADING of PASTES</h3>
		<p>The object of kneading paste is to combine the ingredientsof which it is composed thoroughly, and also to smooth it.Proceed as follows :—</p>
		<p>When the paste is mixed, roll it into a mass; put it in frontof one; then press it away from one, little by little, between theboard and the palm of the hand. For the paste to be perfectlysmooth, it ought to be treated twice in this way.</p>
		<h3 id="2358" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FINE, SHORT or FLAWN PASTE (For Fruit Tarts)</h3>
		<p>Sift one lb. of flour on to the mixing-board, and hollow itout. Put in the hollow one-third oz. of salt, one and one-halfoz. of powdered sugar, an egg, one-fourth pint of cold water, and ten oz. of butter. First, thoroughly mix the butter, theegg, the water, and the seasoning, and then gradually combinethe flour with it.</p>
		<p>Knead the paste; press it out twice; roll it into a ball, andwrap it up as before with the view of setting it aside in the coolto rest.</p>
		<h3 id="2359" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DRESSING PASTE (Pate a Pate)</h3>
		<p>Take one lb. of sifted flour, four oz. of butter, one egg, one-third oz. of salt, and one-fourth pint of water. Mix as already</p>
		<p>directed; knead twice; roll up the paste, and set it in the cool torest. This paste should be kept somewhat firm.</p>
		<h3 id="2360" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DRESSING PASTE with LARD</h3>
		<p>Take one lb. of sifted flour, four oz. of lard, one-quarter pintof tepid water, one egg, one-third oz. of salt, and proceedexactly as in the case of №2359.</p>
		<h3 id="2361" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DUMPLING and PUDDING PASTES</h3>
		<p>Break up ten oz. of very dry beef suet, and carefully clearit of all little pieces of skin and connective tissue. Chop it upas finely as possible; sift one lb. of flour on to the mixing-board; hollow it out; and put into the hollow one-half oz. ofsalt, one and one-half oz. of sugar, one-third pint of water, andthe chopped suet. Mix up these various ingredients, and, bydegrees, combine the flour with them.</p>
		<p>Mass the paste together, without kneading it, and put it asidein the cool until it is wanted.</p>
		<h3 id="2362" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DRY SUGARED PASTE for VARIOUS PURPOSES</h3>
		<p>Take one lb. of sifted flour, seven oz. of butter, five oz. ofpowdered sugar, three eggs, and one-half tablespoonful oforange-flower water.</p>
		<p>Mix in the usual way, knead it twice; roll it into a ball, andkeep it wrapped up, in the cool, until required.</p>
		<h3 id="2363" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PASTE for SMALL GUMMED TEA-CAKES</h3>
		<p>Take one lb. of sifted flour, ten oz. of butter, ten oz. ofsugar, one egg, the yolks of four, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water.</p>
		<p>Mix up gradually; mass the paste together, and roll it outinto a thin layer, twice. Roll it up, and let it rest awhilein the cool before it is used.</p>
		<h3 id="2364" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GUMMING</h3>
		<p>In the case of certain small cakes, especially those served attea, it is usual to gum their surfaces in order to make themglossy. For this purpose a thin solution of gum arabic is used, and it is smeared over the cakes as they leave the oven, bymeans of a small brush.</p>
		<p>Cakes may also be gummed with a syrup formed from milkand sugar, which mixture may be used instead of gum arabicwith advantage.</p>
		<h3 id="2365" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GALETTE paste</h3>
		<p>Hollow out one lb. of sifted flour and put in its midst one-third oz. of salt, two oz. of powdered sugar, one-quarter pint ofwater, and one-half lb. of softened butter.</p>
		<p>Mix, taking care to include the flour only by degrees:</p>
		<p>thoroughly knead, that the ingredients may be well combined, and mass the paste together without making it too elastic.Leave it to rest in the cool for at least an hour; then roll itout thrice, at intervals of eight minutes, for the reasons givenunder the directions for puff-paste.</p>
		<h3 id="2366" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUFF-PASTE</h3>
		<p>(1) Sift one lb. of flour on to the mixing-board. Make ahollow in it, and put therein one-third oz. of table salt andabout one-half pint of cold water, and mix without kneading.Mass the paste together, and let it rest for twenty minutes, thatit may lose its elasticity, which will be all the more pronouncedfor its having been very much worked. It is to avoid thiselasticity, therefore, that the mixing of puff-paste should beeffected with the smallest amount of kneading possible.</p>
		<p>(2) Spread the prepared paste on a flour-dusted board, in theshape of an even galette. Spread thereon one lb. of softenedbutter, without completely covering the paste; draw the edgesof the paste towards the centre, in such wise as to enclose thebutter completely, and to form a square thickness of paste.</p>
		<p>(3) Leave to rest for a further ten minutes,, and then beginthe working of the paste; rolling it out to the length of one andone-half feet, and keeping it one in. thick. Fold this layer overthrice, and press upon it with the roller so as to join the super-posed layers. The whole of this operation constitutes one turn.</p>
		<p>Begin another turn immediately, turning the paste the re-verse way, and folding it as before. Set it to rest in the cool foreight or ten minutes, and then effect two more turns.</p>
		<p>Ten minutes after the two last turns (there should be six inall), the puff-paste is ready to be cut up and used.</p>
		<p>Remarks relative to puff-paste: Good puff-paste should bebuttered to the extent of one lb. per one and one-half lbs., <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, one lb. of butter for every one lb. of flour mixed with one-halfpint of water. The consistence of the paste and the buttershould be exactly the same, if they are to be evenly mixed; thebutter ought therefore to be softened—more particularly inwinter.</p>
		<p>In preparing puff-paste, remember to put it in a cool placewhile it is resting; but never directly upon ice; for, though theice would not affect the paste, it might seriously affect the butter.</p>
		<p>It would harden it to the extent of preventing its perfectmixture with the mass, and lumps would form. Puff-pasteshould be rolled out very regularly, with the view of thoroughlydistributing the butter throughout the preparation, and thusensuring its uniform rising.</p>
		<p>Puff-paste should not be worked too speedily; for, if it be so</p>
		<p>worked, it will be found to acquire an elasticity which not onlvmakes it difficult to cut up, but also tends to make it shrink inthe baking.</p>
		<h3 id="2367" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUFF-PASTE TRIMMINGS or HALF PUFF-PASTE</h3>
		<p>These are very useful in pastry work, for tartlets, barquettes, croutons, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr> When the puff-paste is cut up, the trimmingsshould therefore be rolled into a ball, and put aside in the cool.Nevertheless they must be used within the space of two days insummer and four days in winter.</p>
		<h3 id="2368" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY BRIOCHE PASTE</h3>
		<p>(1) Sift one lb. of flour on to the board; take a quarter of it, make a hollow in it, and put therein one-quarter oz. of veryfresh, dry yeast. Mix the yeast and the flour with a little tepidwater, so as to obtain a soft paste which is the leaven. Rollthis paste into a ball; make twyo slits in its top, at right anglesto one another, and place it in a small basin.</p>
		<p>Cover the latter, and put it in a somewhat warm place, thatthe leaven may be sure to ferment.</p>
		<p>(2) Make a hollow in the remaining flour, and put into it one-quarter oz. of salt, and one and one-half oz. of sugar, togetherwith two tablespoonfuls of milk to melt it, one-third of thewhole amount of the butter to be used, namely, four oz., andfour eggs.</p>
		<p>Begin by thoroughly mixing the butter, eggs and seasoning, and then combine the flour therewith, by degrees. When thepaste forms a compact mass, knead and pull it about with thehands, that it may be light. When, at the end of a few minutes, it has acquired a certain resilience, make a hole in the middleof it and add one egg. Mix the latter with the paste; work itafresh, and after an interval of two minutes add one more egg inthe same way. The total number of eggs for the quantitiesof other ingredients given above should be six.</p>
		<p>(3) Add the remaining butter (eight oz.) to the paste; theformer being manied and even softened, just sufficiently to makeit of the same consistence as the paste.</p>
		<p>Spread it on the latter, and mix the two; kneading smallportions at a time, and combining those portions so as to mixthe two elements completely.</p>
		<p>At this stage, overturn the paste and spread the leaven(which should now be equal to twice its original bulk) upon it.</p>
		<p>Mix it well as in the case of the butter, without working thepaste.</p>
		<p>Finally, put the paste into a basin; cover it, and place it ina temperate room.</p>
		<p>For it to have the desired lightness, this paste should fer-ment for from ten to twelve hours. However, at the end of fiveor six hours, the process is arrested by the working of the paste;that is to say, by turning it out upon a flour-dusted board andbeating it with the palm of the hand.</p>
		<p>It is then returned to the basin to ferment afresh, for fiveor six hours; and then it is once more beaten just before beingused.</p>
		<h3 id="2369" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINE BRIOCHE PASTE</h3>
		<p>Mousseline brioche paste is made from the ordinary kind, combined with a little butter and developed in the mould byfermentation before the baking process—which procedure makesit exceedingly light and delicate.</p>
		<p>This paste is used in the preparation of certain timbales forfruit sweets, and it is prepared as follows :—</p>
		<p>Take the required amount of ordinary brioche paste, andadd to it, per lb. of paste, two oz. of best butter, softened tothe consistence of an ointment, that it may thoroughly mixwith the paste. Roll the paste into a ball, and put it in aliberally-buttered mould, only filling two-thirds of the latterwith it. The remaining third of the mould gets filled by therising of the paste. Place the mould in a temperate room, untilthe paste has risen to the edges of the mould; besmear the sur-face of the paste with a brush dipped in melted butter, and bakein a moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2370" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY BRIOCHE PASTE (For Rissoles, SmallPatties k la Dauphine, and Various other Preparations)</h3>
		<p>Quantities: one lb. of flour, seven oz. of butter, four fair-sized eggs, salt, a pinch of powdered sugar; one-third oz. ofvery dry, fresh yeast, and a little tepid milk.</p>
		<p>(1) Make the leaven with a quarter of the flour, the yeastand the lukewarm milk, and set it to ferment while the pasteis being prepared.</p>
		<p>(2) Prepare the paste as already directed, and keep it fer-menting as before for ten hours, taking care to arrest the processonce.</p>
		<p>The work is the same as in the preceding case, in everyparticular, except in regard to the amount of butter, which inthis instance is only half as much; in regard to the amountof sugar, which should only be just sufficient to ensure thecolouring of the paste; and finally in regard to its firmness, which should admit of the paste being worked with a rolling-pin.</p>
		<h3 id="2371" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAVARIN PASTE</h3>
		<p>Quantities: One lb. of flour; twelve oz. of butter; one-halfoz. of very dry, fresh yeast; eight eggs; about one-third pint ofmilk; one-half oz. of salt, and one oz. of sugar.</p>
		<p>Procedure: Savarin paste may be prepared in several ways;but the one given below is as simple and expeditious as couldbe desired.</p>
		<p>Sift the flour into a basin (or a round wooden bowl, bettersuited to the work); hollow it out; add the yeast, and dissolvethe latter by means of tepid milk, stirring slightly with the tipof the finger.</p>
		<p>Add the eggs; mix the whole; work the paste by hand fora few minutes; detach those portions of it which have adheredto the side of the utensil, and add them to the whole.</p>
		<p>Distribute the softened butter in small quantities over thepaste. Cover, and place in a temperate room until the paste hasgrown to twice its original bulk. Then add salt; knead thepaste, that it may thoroughly absorb the butter, and pat itbriskly until it is sufficiently elastic to be taken up in one lump</p>
		<p>At this stage add the sugar, and work the paste again thatthe former may thoroughly mix with it. The sugar should onlybe added at the close of the operation; for, since it impairs thecohesiveness of the paste, it would render the latter much moredifficult to work were it added at the start.</p>
		<p>THE USES of THIS PASTE</p>
		<p>If it be for Savarins with syrup, it is customary to sprinklethe previously-buttered moulds with slightly-grilled, choppedor splintered almonds. Take the paste in small quantities at atime, and line the moulds with it to the extent of one-third oftheir height.</p>
		<p>The remaining two-thirds of each mould become coveredwhen the paste rises owing to fermentation.</p>
		<p>Proceed in the same way for Savarins which are to be keptdry, for fruit crusts or other uses; but then the sprinkling ofthe moulds with almond may be omitted.</p>
		<h3 id="2372" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PATE A BABA</h3>
		<p>Quantities: One lb. of flour; one-half lb. of butter; seveneggs; two-thirds oz. of yeast; one-fifth pint of milk; one-thirdoz. of salt; two-thirds oz. of sugar; three oz. of currants andsultanas in equal quantities.</p>
		<p>Procedure: Proceed exactly as for Savarin paste, and add thecurrants and sultanas at the last with the sugar. In moulding,</p>
		<p>a few pipped Malaga raisins may be laid on the bottom of themoulds. As in the case of the Savarin, the paste should onlyfill one-third of the mould.</p>
		<h3 id="2373" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY PATE A CHOUX</h3>
		<p>Quantities.—One pint of water; eight oz. of butter; one-thirdoz. of salt; one oz. of sugar; one lb. of sifted flour; sixteen fair-sized eggs, and a tablespoonful of orange-flower water.</p>
		<p>Procedure.—Put the water, butter, salt, and sugar in a sauce-pan and boil. When the liquid boils and rises, take the saucepanoff the fire; add the flour, and mix. Return the saucepan to amoderate fire, and stir the paste until it ceases to stick to thespoon, and the butter begins to ooze slightly.</p>
		<p>Take the saucepan off the fire; add the eggs, two at a time, taking care to mix each couple thoroughly with the paste beforeinserting the succeeding couple. When all the eggs have beenabsorbed, finish the paste with orange-flower water.</p>
		<h3 id="2374" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COMMON PATE A CHOUX (For Souffled Fritters,</h3>
		<p>Gnochi, Potatoes k la Dauphine)</p>
		<p>Proceed as directed above, but reduce the quantity of butterto three oz., and the number of eggs to twelve; avoid dryingthis paste overmuch.</p>
		<h3 id="2375" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RAMEQUINS and GOUGERE PASTE</h3>
		<p>This is prepared exactly like ordinary “Pate k Choux,”except that: —</p>
		<p>1. Milk takes the place of water.</p>
		<p>2. The sugar and orange-flower water are omitted.</p>
		<p>3. For the quantities given (№2373), eight oz. of freshGruy&amp;re, cut into dice, are added to the paste, after all the eggshave been added to it.</p>
		<h3 id="2376" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PATE A GENOISE FINE</h3>
		<p>Put into a copper basin one lb. of powdered sugar andsixteen eggs. Mix the two; place the basin upon hot cindersor on the hob, and whisk its contents until they reach the“ribbon” stage (see remarks below). Then add the selectedaroma (vanilla sugar, orange rind, or liqueur, in the proportionof one tablespoonful of vanilla sugar or orange rind, and oneliqueur-glass of liqueur, to the quantities given above), twelveoz. of sifted flour, and eight oz. of melted butter, the latter beingcarefully poured into the paste without allowing it to bubble.Mix these ingredients with the paste, raising the latter by meansof a spatula that it may not get heavy.</p>
		<p>Bake it in buttered and dredged moulds.</p>
		<p>Remarks.—A preparation of Biscuit or Gtnoise reaches the</p>
		<p>“ribbon” stage when it becomes thick, draws out in ribbon-form, and takes some time to level itself again when a spoon ispulled out of it. This state of the paste is also indicative of itslightness.</p>
		<h3 id="2377" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY GENOISE PASTE for CUTTING UP</h3>
		<p>Quantities.—One lb. of sugar, twelve eggs, thirteen oz. offlour, eight oz. of butter, and the quantity of flavouring thoughtsufficient.</p>
		<p>Proceed exactly as in the preceding recipe, in everythingpertaining to the working of the paste.</p>
		<p>This paste is baked in buttered and dredged cases, in whichit is spread in layers one and one-quarter inches thick, that itmay rise to about one and three-quarter inches thick, whilebaking.</p>
		<h3 id="2378" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LADY’S-FINGER BISCUIT PASTE</h3>
		<p>Stir one lb. of sugar and sixteen egg-yolks in a basin untilthe preparation has whitened slightly and has reached theribbon stage. Now add a tablespoonful of orange-flower water;mix therewith twelve oz. of sifted flour, followed by sixteenegg-whites, whisked to a stiff froth. Take care to effect themixture by raising and cutting the preparation with the spatula, that the former may be quite light.</p>
		<p>To Shape the Biscuits.—Put the paste, little by little, intoa canvas piping-bag, fitted with a pipe of one-half inch bore.Close the bag; lay the biscuits on sheets of strong paper;sprinkle them with powdered sugar, and rid them of any super-fluous sugar by holding the sheets end upwards.</p>
		<p>Jerk a few drops of water upon the biscuits by means ofa moistened brush in order to assist the beading of the sugar, and remember that a very moderate oven is the best for theeffecting of this beading.</p>
		<h3 id="2379" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAVOY-BISCUIT PASTE</h3>
		<p>Stir one lb. of sugar and fourteen egg-yolks in a basin untilthe preparation reaches the ribbon stage. Flavour with vanillasugar; add six oz. of very dry, sifted flour mixed with six oz.of fecula, and finally mix therewith the fourteen egg-whites, which should be in a very stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Carefully set the preparation in buttered and fecula-dredgedmoulds, filling the latter only two-thirds full, and leaving theremaining third to be covered by the rising of the paste whilebaking.</p>
		<p>Bake in a regular, moderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2380" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PATE A BISCUIT MANQUEStir one lb. of sugar with eighteen egg-yolks in a basinuntil the preparation is white and light. Add three table-spoonfuls of rum, thirteen oz. of sifted flour, and ten oz. ofmelted butter, carefully poured away. Mix, raising it withthe spatula in so doing.</h3>
		<p>Set the preparation in special buttered and dredged moulds, filling the latter only two-thirds full with it. Bake in amoderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2381" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUNCH BISCUIT PASTEStir one lb. of sugar, twelve egg-yolks, and three eggs in abasin, until the whole becomes frothy. Aromatise with a baretablespoonful of orange sugar, the same amount of lemonsugar, and three tablespoonfuls of best rum, and addtwelve oz. of sifted flour, ten oz. of melted butter, and thewhites of eight eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Mix wffth theusual precautions, that the paste may not be heavy.</h3>
		<p>Bake the preparation in buttered moulds, in cases or inrings, according to the purpose it is intended for. Use amoderate oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2382" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY MERINGUEWhisk the whites of eight eggs until they are as stiff as it ispossible to make them. Sprinkle them with one lb. of pow-dered sugar, and mix them with the latter carefully, that theymay retain all their lightness.</h3>
		<h3 id="2383" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MERINGUE à l’lTALIENNECook one lb. of sugar to the large-ball stage, and meanwhilewhisk the whites of eight eggs to a stiff froth, so as to havethem ready simultaneously with the sugar.</h3>
		<p>Pour the cooked sugar into the egg-whites, slowly and with-out a pause, and mix up briskly with the whisk.</p>
		<h3 id="2384" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MERINGUE à l’lTALIENNE (another recipe)Mix one lb. of very best powdered sugar and the whites ofeight eggs in an untinned copper basin. Place the utensil onhot cinders or on the side of the stove, that the preparation maybe lukewarm while in progress.</h3>
		<p>Whisk the meringue until it is sufficiently consistent to spanthe members of the whisk. If it is not to be used at once, transfer the paste to a small basin; cover it with a round pieceof paper, and set it in the cool.</p>
		<h3 id="2385" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ALMOND PASTEInstead of the antiquated and difficult method of makingalmond pastes in the mortar, a crushing machine is now used</h3>
		<p>which not only yields a much smoother paste, but also greatlysimplifies the work. Almond paste, which consists of almonds, sugar, and egg-whites, in quantities varying in accordance withthe purpose of the paste, is now sold ready-made. It has onlyto be finished with a little sugar, white of egg, and otherthings, subject to the use to which it is to be put.</p>
		<h3 id="2386" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MELTING ALMOND PASTE (For Stuffing andImitating Fruit)</h3>
		<p>Pass eight oz. of dry, skinned almonds through the crusherPlace them in the mortar, together with the selected aromaticessence; either a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar or a smallglassful of liqueur; and add to them, little by little, working thewhile with the pestle, one lb. of sugar cooked to the small-crack stage.</p>
		<p>With this generic recipe, the melting paste may be variedat will by an increase or decrease in the quantity of sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2387" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PISTACHIOS</h3>
		<p>These should belong to the pastry-cook’s stock, but, as arule, they are only prepared just before being served. To skinthem, proceed as in the case of almonds.</p>
		<h3 id="2388" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PISTACHIO PASTE for INFUSION</h3>
		<p>As soon as the pistachios are skinned, washed, and dried, crush them in the mortar to a very smooth paste, which set inboiled milk, to infuse.</p>
		<p>As the colour of pistachios is weak, it is strengthened inpreparations containing them with a few drops of vegetablegreen, while its aroma is thrown into relief with a trifle ofvanilla.</p>
		<h3 id="2389" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MELTING PISTACHIO PASTE</h3>
		<p>Put seven oz. of pistachios and two oz. of almonds throughthe crusher; both should have been just skinned. Put thepaste into the mortar; add to it two tablespoonfuls of syrup, strongly flavoured with vanilla, followed by eight oz. of sugar, cooked to the small-crack stage, and added to the paste littleby little.</p>
		<p>Transfer the paste to a marble slab, and finish it by com-bining three tablespoonfuls of icing sugar with it.</p>
		<p>The Preparation and Cooking of Various Pastry Crusts</p>
		<p>used in Cookery</p>
		<h3 id="2390" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VOL-au-VENT CRUST</h3>
		<p>Prepare the puff-paste as directed under №2366. Makethe layer of paste of an even thickness of four-fifths inch; set</p>
		<p>70 5</p>
		<p>thereon an overturned plate or a saucepan-lid, the size of whichshould be that intended for the Vol-au-vent, and cut the pasteobliquely, following round the edges of the lid or plate with asmall knife. Turn the layer of paste over, and set it on aslightly moistened round baking sheet; groove it all round;gild it, and describe a circle on top of it with the point of aknife, one and one-quarter inches awray from the edge, to formthe cover of the Vol-au-vent. Streak this cover criss-cross-fashion; also streak the body of the Vol-au-vent with the pointof a small knife, and bake it in a rather hot oven.</p>
		<p>Upon withdrawing the Vol-au-vent from the oven, removeits cover, and clear it of the soft crumb which will be found onits inside.</p>
		<h3 id="2391" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOUCHEE or SMALL-PATTY CRUSTSBouchdes are really small Vol-au-vents. Roll out the paste, making it a good one-third inch thick. Cut this layer with agrooved round cutter three inches in diameter; set the roundelsof stamped-out paste on a moistened tray; gild, and make acircular incision in each of them, one-half inch from their edges, either with the point of a small knife or wdth an even, roundcutter dipped in hot water.</h3>
		<p>Bake in a hot oven, and clear the insides of the bouchdes oftheir crumb on taking them out of the oven. “MignonnesBouchdes,” which are used as a garnish, are stamped out witha round cutter two inches in diameter, and are slightly thickerthan ordinary bouchdes.</p>
		<h3 id="2392" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SMALL HOT PATTIESRoll out the puff-paste to a thickness of one-sixth inch, andstamp it out with an even round cutter three inches in diameter.With the trimmings resulting from this operation, rolled some-what more thinly, make an equal quantity of roundels, and laythem on a tray. Slightly moisten the edges of these roundelswith a brush; garnish their centres w7ith some forcemeat, rolledto the size of a hazel-nut; cover the forcemeat wdth the roundelsstamped out from the first; press upon these with the back ofa round cutter two inches in diameter; gild them, and bakethem in a hot oven for twelve or fourteen minutes.</h3>
		<h3 id="2393" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROfJTES et croustadesFor tartlet crusts, which are put to various uses, take eithereven or grooved, large or small moulds, subject Lo the require-ments.</h3>
		<p>Roll out a piece of short paste to a thickness of one-fifth inch;stamp it out with a grooved round cutter of a size in proportionto the moulds used; line the buttered moulds with these roundels</p>
		<p>z z</p>
		<p>706 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>of paste; pierce the paste on the bottom of each with the pointof a small knife; line with good-quality paper; fill up withlentils, split peas, or rice, and bake in a moderate oven. Whenthe paste is baked, withdraw the dry vegetable used and thepaper, and place the crusts in the drying-box, that they maybe quite dry; or gild them inside, and set them in the front ofthe oven for a few minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2394" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE CRUST</h3>
		<p>Butter a Charlotte-mould, and decorate its sides with somesort of design made from noodle-paste trimmings to which alittle powdered sugar has been added. Shape a piece of shortpaste (of a size in proportion to the mould) like a ball; roll itout to a disc; sprinkle it with flour, and fold it in two. Drawthe ends gently towards the centre, so as to form a kind ofskullcap, and take care to not crease the paste. Make thisskullcap of an even thickness of one-third inch, and place it inthe mould.</p>
		<p>Press it well upon the bottom and sides of the mould, thatit may acquire the shape of the latter; line the mould insidewith good buttered paper; fill up with lentils or split peas, letting them project in a dome above the edges of the paste, andcover with a round sheet of paper.</p>
		<p>Prepare a round layer of paste, one-fifth inch thick, a littlelarger diametrally than the timbale one. Slightly moisten theinside edges of the timbale; cover it with the prepared disc ofpaste, and seal it well down to the edges of the timbale, pressingit between the fingers in such wise as to form a crest reachingone-half inch beyond the brim of the mould all round.</p>
		<p>Pinch this crest with paste-pincers inside and out.</p>
		<p>With a round or oval grooved fancy-cutter stamp out someimitation leaves from a very thin layer of paste, and imitatethe veins of the leaves with the back of a knife; or stampout some triangles of paste; shape them like leaves, and setthese (slightly overlapping one another) upon the dome of thetimbale in superposed rows.</p>
		<p>Finish with three roundels of paste, stamped out with agrooved round cutter of a different size from the first, and makea hole in the centre of each roundel with a round, even fancy-cutter. Gild and bake in a moderate oven. When the outsideof the timbale is well browned, detach and remove the coverformed by the leaves. Withdraw the split peas and the paper;gild the timbale inside, and leave it to dry in the front of theoven or in the drying-box.</p>
		<h3 id="2395" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">-FLAWN CRUST</h3>
		<p>With short or any other kind of paste prepare a layer one-sixth inch thick, the diameter of which should be one-fourth aslong again as that of the flawn-ring used. Raise this layer, andplace it upon the previously-buttered flawn-ring, pressing it withthe fingers, that it may assume the shape of the mould. Thenroll the pin across the ring, in order that the overlapping pastemay be cut away; press the thickness of paste that has beenformed between the fingers in such a way as to make it projectabove the edges of the flawm-ring, and form a regular crest.Pinch this crest with the pastry pincers, and set the flawn-ringon a small round baking sheet.</p>
		<p>Prick it with the point of a small knife; line its bottom andsides with slightly-buttered, good paper; fill the ring with drylentils or split peas, and bake in a moderately hot oven forabout twenty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Then remove the lentils and paper, as also the ring, andreturn the flawn to the oven for a few minutes to brown, if itis not already sufficiently coloured.</p>
		<p>If the paste be required very dry, place the flawn in thedrying-box for a little while, or gild it inside, and set it in thefront of the oven for a few minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2396" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE LINING and COVERING of RAISED</h3>
		<p>and DRESSED PIES</p>
		<p>The moulds for Raised Pies are oval or round. If they areround, make a layer of patty paste, one-half inch thick, in pro-portion to the size of the mould.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle this paste with flour, fold it in two, and shape itlike a skullcap, after the manner described under “TimbaleCrust.” It is only necessary to press this skullcap of pasteinto the buttered mould in order to give it the shape of thelatter. If the mould is oval, proceed in the same way, givingthe skullcap an oval shape.</p>
		<p>When the raised pie is filled, first cover the garnish witha somewhat thin, round, or oval layer of paste, in accordancewith the shape of the mould, and seal it well down upon themoistened edges. Then cut away the superfluous paste of thecrest, so as to make the latter even and neat, and pinch it out-side and in. Raised pies are covered in two ways—eitherwith a layer of puff-paste, or with leaves of paste stampedout with a round cutter or a knife, the veins being imitatedwith the back of a knife.</p>
		<p>In the first case, prepare a layer of puff-paste one-third inchthick, equal in size to the inside of the patty. Drop this layer</p>
		<p>z z 2</p>
		<p>of paste upon the cover of the pie, after having slightly moist-ened it; gild and streak it, and make a slit in the top for theescape of steam.</p>
		<p>In the second case, prepare the paste leaves as directed above, and lay them on the pie (slightly overlapping one another) insuperposed rows, starting from the bottom. On the top of thepie set three or four indented roundels of paste, graduated insize, and stuck one upon the other, each roundel having a holein its centre for the escape of steam.</p>
		<p>Gild and set the pie in the oven.</p>
		<p>The baking of raised pies made with raw forcemeat is effectedin a moderately-heated oven. Bear in mind that the larger thepie is, the more moderate should be the oven.</p>
		<p>VARIOUS CUSTARDSHot Custards2397—CREME ANGLAISE</p>
		<p>This custard allows of various methods of preparation whichare subject to the purpose for which it is intended. It is thechief sauce for entremets, and whether it be poached in a deepdish or in a mould, it constitutes one of the oldest and best-known entremets. This last kind of custard will be examinedhereafter. At present I shall only deal with the varietyused either as a sauce or an accompaniment, cold or hot. Itis extremely difficult to prescribe fixed quantities for thiscustard, for the former depend a great deal upon the consumers’tastes, and, whereas some like a thick custard, others go to theextreme of wishing it just liquid enough to be drunk like anyother beverage.</p>
		<p>The quantities given below are suited to a custard of mediumconsistence, but if a thicker custard were desired, the numberof egg-yolks would have to be proportionately increased, andvice-versa.</p>
		<p>The quantity of sugar also varies, subject to the consumers’tastes, and, as the amount used (except in the case of unreason-able excess) does not affect the consistence of the custard, itmay be graduated from three to ten or twelve oz. per quart, astaste may dictate. Six oz. of sugar per quart of milk constitutesa happy medium.</p>
		<p>English custard admits of all the aromatic essences used forentremets, but the one which suits it best is vanilla. When thislast-named flavour or that of filberts, almond pralin, or coffeeis used, if is well to put the required quantity to infuse for</p>
		<p>twenty minutes in the boiling milk, after the latter has beenmeasured off. Chocolate is first melted and then graduallyadded to the custard before it is cooked. Other aromatic essencesor liqueurs are added to the custard after it has been strained.English custard admits of two methods of preparation: —Recipe A.—Put twelve raw egg-yolks and three-quarters lb.of powdered sugar in a bowl. Mix the sugar a little with theyolks, and stir the latter briskly with a spatula until they haveentirely absorbed the sugar, and the resulting paste is whiteand has reached the ribbon stage. Then pour one quart ofboiling milk into the paste, little by little, mixing the wholethe while with a whisk. Then put the preparation on the fire, stirring it with a spatula, and cook it until it approaches theboil and properly coats the withdrawn spoon. Take care notto let it boil, for this would turn the preparation. In anycase, when the sauce is intended for hot sweets, by adding atablespoonful of arrowroot, it may be prevented from turning.</p>
		<p>When the custard is cooked, as already explained, strain it, either through a strainer, into a bain-marie, if it is to be servedhot, or through a sieve into a large, enamelled basin, whereit should be frequently stirred to be kept smooth while cooling.</p>
		<p>Custard prepared in this way forms the base of all ice-creams, of which I shall speak later on. It may serve as anadjunct to all cold or hot sweets which allow of a sauce. When, while it is still lukewarm, it is combined with its weight of bestbutter, it constitutes the delicious butter cream, which is therichest and most delicate of the pastry-cook’s confections.</p>
		<p>Finally, if eight melted gelatine leaves per quart of cooledmilk be added to it, and it be mixed with twice its volume ofwhipped cream, it represents the preparation for “CreamBavarois” and “Russian Charlottes.”</p>
		<p>Recipe B.—Melt six oz. of sugar in one quart of milk; boil, and pour the mixture, little by little, over twelve egg-yolks, whisking the latter briskly the while. When this custard is tobe moulded, or is intended for a Cabinet Pudding, or some othersimilar preparation, which must be ultimately poached, strainit as soon as it is mixed, without cooking it.</p>
		<p>If, on the other hand, it be intended for an accompaniment, or for the preparation of butter creams or ices, cook it as directedin Recipe A.</p>
		<h3 id="2398" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DISHED ENGLISH CUSTARD (To Accompany</h3>
		<p>Cold or Hot Stewed Fruit)For this purpose English custard is made from only ten egg-yolks per quart of milk. Serve it in shallow silver or porcelain</p>
		<p>7io</p>
		<p>dishes; sprinkle its surface copiously with icing sugar, andcriss-cross it with a red-hot iron.</p>
		<h3 id="2399" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRANQIPAN CREAM</h3>
		<p>As in the case of English custard, Frangipan custard variesin the quantities of its ingredients in accordance with its pur-pose and the taste of its consumers. The recipe given below isan average one, which the reader will be able to modify, inregard to consistence, by increasing or decreasing the amount offlour.</p>
		<p>Mix one-half lb. of powdered sugar, two oz. of flour, twowhole eggs, and the yolks of five in a basin. Pour one pint ofboiling milk over this paste, stirring it briskly the while; adda grain of salt and the selected aromatic essence, and set thesaucepan on the fire, that the Frangipan may cook. Do notcease stirring this cream while it is cooking, for it easilyburns.</p>
		<p>Let it boil a few minutes; pour it into a bowl, and combinethree oz. of fresh butter and two tablespoonfuls of dry, crushedmacaroons with it. When the whole is well mixed, smooththe surface of the custard with a well-buttered spoon, so that nocrust may form while the cooling progresses.</p>
		<h3 id="2400" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRANQIPAN for FRIED CREAM</h3>
		<p>Proceed as above, but so apportion the quantities as toobtain a very firm cream. The quantities should be asfollows :—Six oz. of flour, six oz. of sugar, ten egg-yolks, fourwhole eggs, one quart of milk, and one oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>When this cream is cooked, spread it in a layer one inchthick on a buttered tray or on a marble slab; carefully butterits surface, and let it cool before using it.</p>
		<p>Cold Custards</p>
		<h3 id="2401" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PASTRY CREAM</h3>
		<p>Mix one lb. of powdered sugar with four oz. of flour andtwelve egg-yolks, and dilute with one quart of boiling milk.Cook this cream, stirring it continually the while; and, as soonas it boils, add to it a few drops of orange-flower water andfour gelatine leaves, softened in cold water. Boil the creama few minutes; take it off the fire, and, while stirring it briskly, carefully combine with it twelve egg-whites, beaten to a stifffroth.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Some operators call this St. Honors cream (for, asa matter of fact, it serves chiefly in the garnishing of sweetsbearing that name), and give the name of Pastry cream to the</p>
		<p>same preparation minus the egg-whites and the gelatine. Iprefer to abide by the principle given above, and to considerthe cream without whisked egg-whites merely as a Frangipan, with which it has many points in common.</p>
		<p>Pastry cream may be flavoured according to fancy. Theaddition of the gelatine is not necessary when the cream is tobe served immediately, or when it only has a moment or twoto wait. But it is indispensable to prevent the decompositionof the preparation, especially in hot weather, if it have to waitat all.</p>
		<h3 id="2402" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">WHIPPED or CHANTILLY CREAM</h3>
		<p>Nothing could be simpler or more exquisite than this pre-paration, which is obtained by whipping the best cream (keptfresh for twenty-four hours in ice) over ice. The cream speedilyincreases in volume and becomes frothy. The operation shouldthen be stopped, lest the cream turn to butter, and there shouldbe immediately added to the former four oz. of powdered sugar(part of which should be the vanilla kind) per quart, and thenthe preparation should be placed in the cool until required.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The addition of a little dissolved or powdered traga-canth gum to the cream allows of a more frothy cream beingobtained, but the result is neither as fresh nor as perfect intaste when it is not combined with a sweet or ice preparation.</p>
		<p>Various Preparations for Entremets</p>
		<h3 id="2403" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PREPARATIONS for PANCAKES and PANNEQUETS</h3>
		<p>Preparation A.—Put into a basin one lb. of sifted flour, six oz.of powdered sugar, and a pinch of table-salt. Dilute with teneggs and one quart of milk, added by degrees. Flavour with oneheaped tablespoonful of orange, lemon or vanilla sugar, whichshould form part of the total weight of sugar prescribed; or withone-eighth pint of some liqueur such as brandy, kirsch, rum, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, which should form part of the total moistening.</p>
		<p>Preparation B.—Dilute one lb. of flour, three and one-half oz.of powdered sugar and a pinch of salt, with nine eggs and a half-pint of cream. Add one-eighth pint of brandy, two and a half-oz. of melted butter and one and a half-pints of milk. Pass thewhole through a fine strainer, and finish it with one-eighth pint oforgeat syrup (or almond milk) and three oz. of finely-crushedmacaroons.</p>
		<p>Preparation C.—Dilute one lb. of flour, three and a half oz. ofpowdered sugar and a pinch of table salt in nine eggs. Stir the</p>
		<p>mixture well; add to it a half-pint of raw cream and one pint ofmilk. Finish with a half-pint of whipped cream, and flavour asfancy may suggest.</p>
		<p>Preparation D.—Dilute one lb. of flour, three and a half oz. ofpowdered sugar and a pinch of salt, in five eggs and the yolks ofthree. Add one and three-quarter pints of milk and five egg-whites whisked to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Flavour according to fancy.</p>
		<h3 id="2404" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE PREPARATION for ENTREMETS</h3>
		<p>Wash one lb. of Carolina or Patna rice; cover it with plenty ofcold water; boil, and drain it the moment it has boiled. Wash itonce more in lukewarm water; drain it, and set it to cook withtwo pints of boiled milk, two-thirds lb. of sugar, a pinch of saltand three oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Flavour with a stick of vanilla or a few strips of orange orlemon rind, strung together with cotton. When the liquor beginsto boil, cover the saucepan; place it in the oven, and let it cookgently for twenty or twenty-five minutes, without once touchingthe rice the while.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing it from the oven, thicken it with the yolks ofsixteen eggs, which should be mixed with it by means of a forkin such wise as not to break the rice grains, which ought toremain whole.</p>
		<p>N.B.—In some cases, the milk and the sugar may be re-placed (for the cooking process) by an equal amount of syrup at120 (Saccharometer).</p>
		<h3 id="2405" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE PREPARATIONS</h3>
		<p>Souffle preparations are of two kinds :—</p>
		<p>(1) Those prepared with cream, which if necessary may servefor all souffles; (2) those with a fruit-pur£e base, which allow ofa more pronounced flavour for fruit souffles than if these wereprepared with cream.</p>
		<p>Cream-souffle Preparation for Four People.—Boil one-sixth pintof milk with one oz. of sugar; add a tablespoonful of flourdiluted in a little cold milk; cook for two minutes, and finish, away from the fire, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, andtwo egg-yolks with three whites whisked to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Souffle Preparation for a Big Party.—Thoroughly mix half-lb.of flour, half-lb. of sugar, four eggs and the yolks of three, in asaucepan. Dilute with one quart of boiling milk; add a stick ofvanilla; boil, and cook for two minutes, stirring incessantlythe while.</p>
		<p>Finish, away from the fire, with four oz. of butter, five egg-yolks, and twelve whites, whisked to a very stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Souffli Preparation with a Fruit Base.—Take one lb. of sugarcooked to the small-crack stage; add thereto one lb. of the pulpor puree of the fruit under treatment, and ten egg-whites, beatento a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Proceed thus: Having cooked the sugar to the extent statedabove, add to it the fruit pulp. If the latter reduces the sugara stage or two, cook it afresh in order to return it to the small-crack stage; and, when this is reached, pour it over the whites.</p>
		<p>Dishing and Cooking of Souffles.—Whatever the souffles mayconsist of, dish them in a timbale, or in a special false-bottomeddish, buttered and sugared inside. Cook in a somewhat moderateoven, that the heat may reach the centre of the souffle by degrees.</p>
		<p>Two minutes before withdrawing the souffle from the oven, sprinkle it with icing sugar, which, when it becomes caramelupon the surface of the souffld, constitutes the glazing.</p>
		<p>The decoration of souffles is optional, and, in any case, shouldnot be overdone.</p>
		<p>Hot Sauces for Entremets</p>
		<h3 id="2406" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH SAUCE</h3>
		<p>See the Custard recipe (№2397).</p>
		<h3 id="2407" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHOCOLATE SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Dissolve half-lb. of grated chocolate in two-thirds pint of water.Add a tablespoonful of vanilla sugar; cook gently for twenty-fiveminutes, and complete at the last moment with three table-spoonfuls of cream and a piece of best butter, the size of awalnut.</p>
		<h3 id="2408" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SABAYON</h3>
		<p>Mix one lb. of powdered sugar with twelve egg-yolks, in abasin, until the mixture has whitened slightly. Dilute with onequart of dry, white wine; pour the whole in a narrow bain-marie, which should be placed in a receptacle containing boiling water, and whisk it until it is four times its former size, and is firmand frothy.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Sabayon may also be made with milk instead of whitewine, and it may be flavoured according to fancy.</p>
		<h3 id="2409" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRUIT SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Apricots, red-currants, greengages and mirabelle plums are thebest fruits for sweet sauces. Other fruits, such as peaches, William</p>
		<p>7 H GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>pears, apples, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, may also be used in the form of light purgesor cullises.</p>
		<h3 id="2410" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOT SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Rub some very ripe or stewed apricots through a sieve, and thinthe pur£e with the required quantity of syrup at 28° (Saccharom.).Boil, skimming carefully the while; take off the fire when thesauce veneers the withdrawn spoon, and flavour according to fancy.</p>
		<p>If this sauce is to be used with crusts, a little best butter maybe added to it.</p>
		<h3 id="2411" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RED-CURRANT SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Melt some red-currant jelly and flavour it with kirsch.</p>
		<p>This sauce may be slightly thickened with arrowroot.</p>
		<h3 id="2412" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUCE ORANGE</h3>
		<p>Rub some orange marmalade through a sieve; add theretoone-third of its bulk of apricot sauce, and flavour with Curasao.</p>
		<h3 id="2413" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HAZEL-NUT SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Flavour some English custard with an infusion of grilled hazel-nuts, and add two tablespoonfuls of moulded filbert pralin perquart of custard.</p>
		<h3 id="2414" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GREENGAGE or MIRABELLE SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for apricot sauce and flavour with kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2415" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHERRY SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Take the syrup of some stewed cherries, add an equal quantityof red-currant jelly, and flavour with kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2416" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RASPBERRY SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Take the required quantity of melted raspberry jelly; thickenit slightly with arrowroot, and flavour with kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2417" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STRAWBERRY SAUCEProceed as for №2416.</h3>
		<h3 id="2418" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THICKENED SYRUPS</h3>
		<p>These accompaniments of sweets, which are commonly used inGermany, have this in their favour, that they are economical; butthey should be used in moderation. To make them, take somesyrup at 15° thickened with arrowroot, coloured accordingto the purpose for which it is required, and flavoured with someliqueur or essence at the last moment.</p>
		<p>It is with this kind of sauce that flawns and all other sorts oftartlets are coated in northern countries.</p>
		<p>HOT SWEETSFritters</p>
		<p>The numerous fritter recipes for sweets may all be grouped intofive leading classes, viz.:—</p>
		<p>(1) Fruit fritters.</p>
		<p>(2) Custard fritters.</p>
		<p>(3) Viennese fritters.</p>
		<p>(4) Souffl^d fritters.</p>
		<p>(5) Sundry other fritters which are more or less like the fourformer ones without entirely resembling them.</p>
		<h3 id="2419" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Class 1. FRESH FRUIT and FLOWER FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Subject to the treatment undergone by them, fruits for frittersare of two kinds: firm fruits, such as apples and pears, and aqueousfruits, such as strawberries, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>420—FRITTERS of FRUIT with FIRM PULPS</p>
		<p>Ex. APRICOT FRITTERS</p>
		<p>Select some apricots that are not over-ripe; cut them in two ;sprinkle them with sugar, and set them to macerate for an hourin kirsch, brandy, or rum, subject to the consumers’ tastes. A fewminutes before serving, dry the halved apricots, dip them in batter(№234), and fry them in hot fat. Drain them on a napkin; setthe fritters on a tray; cover them with icing sugar, and glaze themin a hot oven or at the salamander. Dish them on a napkin, andserve them at once.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Proceed in precisely the same way for Apple, Pear, Peach, or Banana fritters.</p>
		<h3 id="2421" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AQUEOUS-FRUIT FRITTERSEx. STRAWBERRY FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Select some large, somewhat firm strawberries; sugar themcopiously; sprinkle them with kirsch, and let them macerate onice for thirty minutes.</p>
		<p>It is most essential that the strawberries be well sugared beforemacerating, because the heat of the fat sours them while the frittersare being fried, and they consequently become tart.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, drain the strawberries, dip themin batter (№234), and plunge them into very hot fat. Drain them, dish them on lace paper, and sprinkle them with icing sugar, bymeans of a dredger.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The procedure is the same for Raspberry, Red-currant, Cherry, Orange, and Tangerine fritters. For the last-named, it isbetter to quarter them and peel, them raw, than to slice them.</p>
		<h3 id="2422" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLOWER FRITTERS. Ex. ACACIA-FLOWER FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Select some blown acacia flowers; besprinkle them with sugarand liqueur brandy, and leave them to macerate for thirtyminutes.</p>
		<p>Dip them in batter (№234); plunge them into plenty of hotfat; drain them; sprinkle them with best sugar and dish themon a napkin.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Proceed as above for Elder-flower, Lily, and Vegetable-marrow-flower fritters; but in the case of the last two, thequartered corollae, alone, are used.</p>
		<h3 id="2423" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUSTARD FRITTERS or FRIED CREAM</h3>
		<p>Custard fritters may be prepared in the three following totallydifferent ways.</p>
		<p>1st Method.—Cut up preparation №2400 with a round, square, orlozenge-shaped fancy cutter, as taste may dictate. Treat the resultingpieces of custard twice d langlaise, using very fine and fresh bread-crumbs for the purpose. Press upon the bread-crumbs with theblade of a knife that they may adhere properly, and fry the piecesof cream in very hot fat. On taking the fritters out of the fatsprinkle them with icing sugar, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Instead of treating these fritters d Panglaise, they maybedipped into batter and treated as directed in the case of Apricotfritters.</p>
		<p>2nd Method.—Prepare a custard as for a “cr&amp;me renvers^e”(№2639), using only whole eggs, that it may be firm; and poachit in a utensil of a shape which will facilitate the cutting-up of thepreparation. When the latter is quite cool, cut it up as fancy maysuggest; dip the pieces in batter (№234) and plunge them inplenty of hot fat. Drain them on a piece of linen; sprinkle themwith icing sugar; glaze them in a fierce oven, and dish them on anapkin.</p>
		<p>3rd Method.—Prepare some common-shaped meringues, andkeep them very dry.</p>
		<p>When they have cooled, open them slightly on top, and, throughthe hole in each, fill them either with a Bavarois preparation, withsome kind of ice-cream, or with a fruit salpicon thickened withstewed apricots or plums. Close the holes with the pieces thatwere cut out, and place the meringues in the refrigerator foran hour.</p>
		<p>7*7</p>
		<p>When about to serve them, quickly treat them d tanglaise; setthem (opened side uppermost) in a frying-basket, and dip them for afew seconds in smoking fat. Withdraw them as soon as their crustshave acquired a golden colour; sprinkle them with icing sugar ;dish them on a napkin, and serve them immediately.</p>
		<h3 id="2424" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VIENNESE FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Quantities for the paste of Viennese fritters: one lb. of flour ;six oz. of butter; half oz. of yeast; five eggs; half oz. of salt;two-third oz. of sugar; and one-sixth pint of milk. This paste isprepared exactly like Brioche paste (№2368).</p>
		<p>In any case, as it has to be worked with the rolling-pin, alwayskeep it a little firm.</p>
		<h3 id="2425" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HOT VIENNESE FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Roll out a piece of the paste given above to a thickness ofone-fifth inch.</p>
		<p>Spread upon it, at regular intervals, small quantities (about thesize of a large walnut) either of stewed fruit or jam. Moistenslightly; cover with a second layer of paste, of the same size andthickness as the former; press upon it with the back of a roundcutter, so as to ensure the joining of the two layers of paste, andthen stamp the whole out with an even cutter two and a half inchesin diameter.</p>
		<p>Set the fritters on a tray covered with a flour-dusted piece oflinen; let the paste ferment for thirty minutes, and then fry themin plenty of hot fat. Drain them; sprinkle them with icing sugarand dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<p>N.B.—These fritters may be accompanied by frothy sauces, flavoured with vanilla, lemon, orange, coffee, or kirsch, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, the typeof which is the Sabayon with cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2426" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COLD VIENNESE FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Roll out a piece of the paste prescribed, which should be keptsomewhat soft, and stamp it out with a round cutter two and ahalf inches in diameter. Set half of these roundels of paste onbuttered sheets of paper, lying on trays; garnish them either withstewed fruit or jam; slightly moisten their edges; cover them withthe remaining roundels of paste, and let the paste ferment for thirtyminutes.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, grasp the ends of the sheets ofpaper; plunge the fritters into plenty of hot fat, and withdraw thesheets of paper as soon as the fritters fall from them.</p>
		<p>?i8</p>
		<p>Drain them as soon as they begin to colour; and plunge themimmediately into a light, hot syrup, flavoured as fancy may dictate.Withdraw them as soon as they are beginning to be saturated, andserve them cold.</p>
		<p>N.B.—In the case of either of these two methods ot servingViennese fritters, the latter, which are served under the name of“fritters a la Dauphine,” may be garnished with fruit salpicons orcream preparations.</p>
		<p>Souffled Fritters</p>
		<h3 id="2427" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORDINARY SOUFFLED FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Put one pint of water, three and a half oz. of butter, a pinch ofsalt and two pinches of sugar into a saucepan. Boil; take theutensil off the fire in order to add two-thirds lb. of sifted flour, andmix up the whole. Then dry this paste as directed for pate achoux (№2373); and finish it, away from the fire, with seven eggs, added one by one.</p>
		<p>Flavour according to taste.</p>
		<p>Take this paste in portions, the size of small walnuts; put theseportions in moderately hot fat, and gradually increase the heat ofthe latter, so as to ensure the rising of the paste.</p>
		<p>When the fritters are quite dry outside, drain them; dish themon a napkin, and sprinkle them with icing sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2428" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED FRITTERS “EN SURPRISE”</h3>
		<p>Prepare the fritters exactly like the preceding ones. Whentaking them out of the fat, open them slightly and garnish them, bymeans of the piping-bag, either with stewed fruit, jam, a veryfine, thickened salpicon of fruit, or some kind of cream, especiallyfrangipan or pastry cream.</p>
		<p>Various Fritters</p>
		<h3 id="2429" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PINEAPPLE FRITTERS “à la FAVORITE”</h3>
		<p>Cut the pineapple into roundels, one-third inch thick; cut eachroundel in two; sprinkle the half-discs with sugar and kirsch, andlet them macerate for thirty minutes. Then dry them and dip theminto a very thick and almost cold frangipan cream, combined withchopped pistachios. Set the cream-coated roundels on a tray, andlet them cool completely.</p>
		<p>A little while before serving, detach the roundels from thetray; dip them in somewhat thin batter, and fry them in plenty ofhot fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them; sprinkle them with icing sugar; glaze them ina fierce oven, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2430" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRITTERS “à la BOURGEOISE”</h3>
		<p>Cut a stale brioche crown into slices, one-third inch thick, and dipthese into fresh, sugared cream, flavoured according to fancy. Drainthem; dry them slightly; dip them into thin batter, and fry themin very hot fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them; sprinkle them with sugar, and dish them on anapkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2431" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SYLVANA FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Hollow out some small round brioches, preserving the crustsfor covers, and dip them in some thin, sugared and flavoured freshcream. Then garnish them with a small fruit salpicon with kirsch ;cover this with the reserved covers; dip them into thin batter, andfry them in plenty of hot fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them withicing sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2432" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRITTERS “à la GRAND’MERE”</h3>
		<p>Spread upon a moistened tray a layer half inch thick of veryreduced, stewed fruit. Cut it up according to fancy; dip the piecesin batter (№234), and fry them in plenty of hot fat.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing the fritters from the fat, sprinkle them withicing sugar and set them to glaze in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2433" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">REGINA FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Shape some lady’s-finger biscuits (preparation №2378) intolarge half-balls, one and a half inch in diameter; bake these in amoderate oven and cool them. Then hollow out these half-balls ;garnish them with apricot or some other jam; join them in couples, and dip them so as to thoroughly soak them in some fresh creamflavoured with maraschino.</p>
		<p>Drain them; treat them d Fanglaise with very fine bread-crumbs, and fry them in plenty of hot fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them withicing sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2434" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MINION FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Proceed as above, but substitute for biscuit half-balls soft</p>
		<p>macaroons, saturated with kirsch syrup. For the rest of theoperation, follow the procedure of №2433.</p>
		<h3 id="2435" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">fritters a la suzon</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation of “rice for entremets,” and spread it ina thin layer upon a tray, to cool. Divide it up into discs three anda half inches in diameter; garnish the centre of these with a verystiff fruit salpicon; roll the discs into balls, so as to enclose thesalpicon; dip these balls into thin batter, and fry them in plenty ofhot fat.</p>
		<p>Drain them; dish them on a napkin, and sprinkle them withicing sugar.</p>
		<p>Charlottes</p>
		<h3 id="2436" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APPLE CHARLOTTE</h3>
		<p>Copiously butter a quart Charlotte-mould. Garnish its bottomwith heart-shaped croutons of bread-crumb, slightly overlapping oneanother; and garnish its sides with rectangles of bread of exactlythe same height as the mould, and also slightly overlapping oneanother. The croutons and the rectangles should be one-eighth inchthick, and ought to have been dipped in melted butter before takingtheir place in the mould.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, quartor twelve fine russet apples; peel, slice, andcook them in a sautepan with one oz. of butter, two tablespoonfulsof powdered sugar, and half the rind of a lemon and a littlecinnamon—both tied into a faggot.</p>
		<p>When the apples are cooked, and reduced to a thick purée, remove the faggot of aromatics and add three tablespoonfuls ofstewed apricots.</p>
		<p>Fill up the mould with this preparation, and remember to shapethe latter in a projecting dome above the mould; for it settles incooking.</p>
		<p>Bake in a good, moderate oven for from thirty to thirty-fiveminutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2437" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE de POMMES, EMILE QIRET</h3>
		<p>Prepare the Charlotte as directed above, but in a shallow mould.</p>
		<p>When it is moulded on the dish, completely cover it with aneven coat, half inch thick, of very firm "pastry cream” (№2401), and take care not to spoil the shape of the Charlotte.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the cream copiously with icing sugar; then, with ared-hot iron, criss-cross the Charlotte regularly all round; pressingthe iron upon the sugar-sprinkled cream.</p>
		<p>Surround the base of the Charlotte with a row of beads made</p>
		<p>by means of the piping-bag, from the same cream as that alreadyused.</p>
		<h3 id="2438" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS CHARLOTTES</h3>
		<p>Charlottes may be made with pears, peaches, apricots, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, afterthe same procedure as that directed under №2436. The mostimportant point to be remembered in their preparation is that thestewed fruit used should be very stiff; otherwise it so softensthe shell of bread that the Charlotte collapses as soon as it isturned out.</p>
		<p>It is no less important that the mould should be as full aspossible of the preparation used; for, as already explained, thelatter settles in the cooking process.</p>
		<h3 id="2439" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à la REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Saturate half a pound of “Biscuits a la Cuiller” with Maraschino-Kirsch, and then dip them into a quart of boiled milk. Rub themthrough a silk sieve, and add eight eggs, ten egg-yolks, two-thirdspound of powdered sugar and a small pinch of table salt. Pourthe whole into a shallow, Charlotte mould, and set to poach in abain-marie for about thirty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Let the mould rest for a few minutes; turn out its contents on adish and surround the base of the cream with a crown of stewedhalf-apricots, each garnished with a preserved cherry. Coat thewhole with an apricot syrup, flavoured with Kirsch and Maraschino.</p>
		<h3 id="2440" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME MERINGUEE</h3>
		<p>Prepare some “Creme a la R^gence” as above, and poach it ina buttered deep border-mould. Poach in a bain-marie; turn out ona dish, and garnish the middle of the border with Italian meringue(No 2383), combined with a salpicon of preserved fruit, maceratedin Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Decorate the border by means of a piping-bag, fitted with agrooved pipe and filled with plain, Italian meringue, without thefruit; and set to brown in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Serve an orange-flavoured, English custard separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2441" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VILLAGE CUSTARD</h3>
		<p>Saturate five ounces of dry biscuits with Kirsch and Anisette, and set them in a deep dish in layers, alternated with coatings ofstewed, seasonable fruit, such as pears, apples, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Cover the whole with the following preparation: one-half poundof powdered sugar mixed with eight eggs and the yolks of four, and</p>
		<p>3 A</p>
		<p>diluted with one and three-quarter pints of milk. Poach in a bain-marie, in the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2442" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CUSTARD PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Custard pudding is a form of the English custard mentionedunder №2397.</p>
		<p>The difference between the two is that for the former wholeeggs are used instead of the yolks alone, and that it is preparedaccording to the second method only. The average quantities forthe preparation are :</p>
		<p>Six eggs and six ounces of sugar per quart of milk. Thecustard is cooked in pie-dishes in a bain-marie, which should beplaced in the oven or in a steamer.</p>
		<p>According as to whether the custard be required milky orthick, the number of eggs is either lessened or increased. Inregard to the sugar, the guide should be the consumers’ tastes. Ifnecessary, it may be suppressed altogether, and saccharine orglycerine may be used in its stead, as is customary for diabeticpatients.</p>
		<p>Custard is generally flavoured with vanilla, but any other flavoursuited to sweets may be used with it</p>
		<p>Pancakes. (See preparations №2403.,</p>
		<h3 id="2443" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CONVENT PANCAKES</h3>
		<p>Pour into a buttered and hot omelet-pan some preparation A , sprinkle thereon some William pears, cut into small dice; coverthe latter with some more preparation A; toss the pancake inorder to turn it; sprinkle it with powdered sugar, dish it on a napkinand serve it burning-hot.</p>
		<h3 id="2444" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GEORGETTE PANCAKES</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for Convent pancakes, but substitute for pear-dicesome very thin slices of pine-apple, macerated in Maraschino.</p>
		<h3 id="2445" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GIL^BLAS PANCAKES</h3>
		<p>Make the following preparation: work three ounces of bestbutter in a bowl until it acquires the consistence of a pomade. Mixtherewith three ounces of powdered sugar, three tablespoonfuls ofliqueur brandy, a piece of butter the size of a filbert, and a few dropsof lemon juice.</p>
		<p>Make the pancakes with preparation C; spread the preparedbutter upon them; fold each pancake twice, and dish them on anapkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2446" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANCAKES à la NORMANDE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for Convent Pancakes, but for the pear dice substi-tute fine slices of apple, previously sauUd in butter.</p>
		<h3 id="2447" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANCAKES à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>These are made from preparation B, and are ungarnished.</p>
		<h3 id="2448" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANCAKES à la PAYSANNE</h3>
		<p>Make these from preparation B (the orgeat syrup and themacaroons being suppressed), and flavour with orange-flower water.</p>
		<h3 id="2449" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANCAKES à la RUSSE</h3>
		<p>Add to preparation C, a quarter of its volume of broken biscuitssaturated with kummel and liqueur brandy, and make the pancakesin the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2450" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUZETTE PANCAKES</h3>
		<p>Make these from preparation A, flavoured with curagoa andtangerine juice. Coat them, like Gil-Blas pancakes, with softenedbutter, flavoured with curagoa and tangerine juice.</p>
		<p>Croquettes.</p>
		<h3 id="2451" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHESTNUT CROQUETTES</h3>
		<p>Peel the chestnuts after one of the ways directed (№2172), and cook them in a thin syrup, flavoured with vanilla. Reserveone small, whole chestnut for each croquette. Rub the remainderthrough a sieve; dry the pur£e over a fierce fire, and thicken itwith five egg-yolks and one and a half oz. of butter per lb. ofpuree. Let it cool.</p>
		<p>Then divide the preparation up into portions the size of pigeons’eggs, and roll these portions into balls, with a chestnut in the centreof each.</p>
		<p>Treat them d 1 anglaise with some very fine bread-crumbs; frythem in some very hot fat, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<p>Serve a vanilla-flavoured apricot sauce, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2452" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE CROQUETTES</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation as directed under №2404. Divide it upinto two-oz. portions, moulded to the shape of such fruit as pearsapples, apricots, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>; treat these a Vanglaise, like the chestnutcroquettes, and fry them in the same way.</p>
		<p>Serve an apricot sauce or a vanilla-flavoured Sabayonseparately.</p>
		<p>3 A 2</p>
		<h3 id="2453" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS CROQUETTES</h3>
		<p>Croquettes may also be made from tapioca, semolina, vermi-celli or fresh noodles, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, in which case the procedure is that of theRice Croquettes.</p>
		<p>The preparation may be combined with currants and sultanas, and the croquettes are served with any suitable sauce.</p>
		<p>Crusts.</p>
		<h3 id="2454" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE aux FRUITS</h3>
		<p>Cut some slices one-fifth inch thick from a stale Savarin whichhas not been moistened with syrup, and allow two for each person.Set these slices on a tray; sprinkle them with icing sugar, andput them in the oven so as to dry and glaze them at the same time.Arrange them in a circle round a cushion of fried bread-crumbs, and between each lay a slice of pine-apple of exactly the same sizeas the slices.</p>
		<p>Upon this crown of crusts, set some quartered apples and somestewed pears. The pears may be stewed in a pinkish syrup, which, by varying the colours, makes the croute more sightly.</p>
		<p>Decorate with preserved cherries, lozenges of angelica, quarteredyellow and green chinois, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> Fix a small, turned and white orpink pear on the top of the cushion, by means of a hatelet, andcoat with an apricot sauce, flavoured with Kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2455" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">croCjte a la lyonnaise</h3>
		<p>Prepare the crusts as described above, and coat them with asmooth chestnut puree, flavoured with vanilla; then, cover themwith an apricot pur£e, cooked to the small-thread stage; sprinklewith finely-splintered and slightly-browned almonds, and dish in acircle.</p>
		<p>Garnish the middle of the circle with chestnuts cooked in syrup, and pipped Malaga raisins, currants, and sultanas (washed andswelled in tepid water); the whole cohered with an apricot purdethinned with a few tablespoonsful of Malaga wine.</p>
		<h3 id="2456" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE au MADERE</h3>
		<p>Dish the glazed crusts in a circle as already described. Pourinto their midst a garnish consisting of equal parts of pipped, Malaga raisins, currants, and sultanas, swelled in tepid water andmoistened with a Madeira-flavoured, apricot syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2457" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">croCjte a la marechale</h3>
		<p>Cut from a stale mousseline brioche, some triangles of thesame thickness as the ordinary crusts. Coat them with trali»</p>
		<p>(№2352), and then set them on a tray; sprinkle them withsugar glaze, and dry the pralin in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Stick a fried-bread-crumb cushion, four inches high, on a dish, and surround it with a salpicon of pineapple, raisins, cherries, andsugared orange-rind, cohered with some stiff stewed apples, combined with a little apricot purde. Set the pralm-coatedtriangles upright alongside of the salpicon, and surround them witha border of half-pears, stewed in syrup, half their quantity beingwhite and the other pink.</p>
		<p>On the top of the cushion, set a small pear, cooked in pinksyrup, which fix with a small hatelet, surround the border of half-pears with a thread of apricot pur&lt;£e, flavoured slightly with vanilla, and serve a sauceboat of the same purde separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2458" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE à la NORMANDE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the crusts as indicated under №2454, coat them withvery stiffly stewed apples, and dish them in a circle.</p>
		<p>Garnish their midst with stewed apples, prepared as for uCharlotte, and upon the apples set a pyramid of quartered, whiteand pink apples, cooked in syrup. Cover with reduced applesyrup, thickened with a little very smooth stewed apples flavouredwith Kirsch or old rum.</p>
		<h3 id="2459" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Coat the crusts with pralin, as explained under №2457, anddish them in a circle. In their midst set some thin slices of pine-apple, the ends of which should rest upon the circle of crusts; inthe middle, pour a garnish of various fruits, cohered with anapricot pur£e, flavoured with Madeira, and coat the circle ofcrusts with apricot syrup flavoured with Madeira.</p>
		<h3 id="2460" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROIJTE aux ABRICOTS au MARASQUIN</h3>
		<p>Cook some Savarin paste in buttered tartlet moulds. Whenthese tartlets are cooked, hollow them out at the top, taking care toleave a somewhat thick border all round.</p>
		<p>Coat them inside with pralin (№2352), and dry them in amoderate oven. Then garnish the centre of the tartlets withfrangipan cream, combined with filbert pralin. Upon this creamset a stoned apricot poached in Maraschino.</p>
		<p>Surround the apricot with small, candied half-cherries, alter-nated with lozenges of angelica. Serve an apricot sauce, flavouredwith Maraschino, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2461" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CROUTE VICTORIA</h3>
		<p>Prepare a srsst after №2456, and garnish the centre with</p>
		<p>candied cherries and glazed chestnuts. Serve an apricot sauce, flavoured with rum, separately.</p>
		<p>OMELETS.</p>
		<p>Sweet omelets may be divided into four distinct classes, whichare:—</p>
		<p>1. Liqueur omelets. 3. Souffl^d omelets.</p>
		<p>2. Jam omelets. 4. Surprise melets.</p>
		<p>Omelets with Liqueur.</p>
		<h3 id="3462" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Example: OMELET with RUM</h3>
		<p>Season the omelet with sugar and a little salt, and cook it inthe usual way. Set it on a long dish, sprinkle it with sugar andheated rum, and set a light to it on bringing it to the table.</p>
		<p>Jam Omelets.</p>
		<h3 id="2463" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Example: APRICOT OMELET</h3>
		<p>Season the omelet as above, and, when about to roll it up, garnish it inside with two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam per sixeggs. Set on a long dish; sprinkle with icing sugar, and eithercriss-cross the surface with a red-hot iron or glaze the omelet atthe salamander.</p>
		<h3 id="2464" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">XMAS OMELET</h3>
		<p>Beat the eggs with salt and sugar and add, per six eggs: twotablespoonfuls of cream, a pinch of orange or lemon rind, and onetablespoonful of rum. When about to roll up the omelet, garnishit copiously with mincemeat, set it on a long dish; sprinkle itwith heated rum, and set it alight at the table.</p>
		<p>Souffl£d Omelets.</p>
		<h3 id="2465" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Example: SOUFFLED OMELET with VANILLA</h3>
		<p>Mix eight oz. of sugar and eight egg-yolks in a basin, until themixture has whitened slightly, and draws yp in ribbons when thespatula is pulled out of it. Add ten egg-whites, beaten to a verystiff froth, and mix the two preparations gently; cutting andraising the whole with the spoon.</p>
		<p>Set this preparation on a long, buttered and sugar-dusted dish, m the shape of an oval mound, and take care to put some of itaside in a piping-bag.</p>
		<p>Smooth it all round with the blade of a knife; decorateaccording to fancy with the contents of the piping-bag, and cookin a good, moderate oven, for as long as the size of the omeletrequires.</p>
		<p>Two minutes before withdrawing it from the oven, sprinkle itwith icing sugar, that the latter, when melted, may cover theomelet with a brilliant coat.</p>
		<p>Flavour according to fancy, with vanilla, orange or lemon rind, rum, Kirsch, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>; but remember to add the selected flavour to thepreparation before the egg-whites are added to it.</p>
		<p>Surprise Omelets.</p>
		<h3 id="2466" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Example: NORWEGIAN OMELET</h3>
		<p>Place an oval cushion one and one half in. thick of Gtnoiseupon a long dish, and let the cushion be as long as the desiredomelet. Upon this cushion set a pyramid of ice-cream with fruit.Cover the ice-cream with ordinary meringue (№2382); smoothit with a knife, making it of an even thickness of two-thirds of aninch in so doing; decorate it, by means of the piping-bag, withthe same meringue, and set in a very hot oven, that the meringuemay cook and colour quickly, without the heat reaching the iceinside.</p>
		<h3 id="2467" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET MYLORD</h3>
		<p>Proceed as directed above; but garnish the cushion of Gtnoisewith coats of vanilla ice-cream, alternated with coats of stewedpears. Cover with meringue and cook in the same way.</p>
		<h3 id="2468" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHINESE SURPRISE OMELET</h3>
		<p>The procedure is the same, but the vanilla ice-cream is re-placed by tangerine ice. On taking the omelet out of the oven, surround it with tangerines glazed with sugar, cooked to the large-crack stage.</p>
		<h3 id="2469" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET with CHERRIES</h3>
		<p>Garnish the cushion of Gtnoise with red-currant ice, fla-voured with raspberries and mixed with equal quantities ofcherry ice and half-sugared cherries, macerated in Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Finish it like the Norwegian Omelet.</p>
		<p>On taking it out of the oven, surround the omelet withdrained cherries, preserved in brandy, and sprinkle it withheated Kirsch, to which set a light at the table.</p>
		<h3 id="2470" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET MILADY: also calledMILADY PEACH</h3>
		<p>This is a surprise omelet, garnished with very firm rasp-berry ice, in which are incrusted a circle of fine peaches, poachedin vanilla.</p>
		<p>The whole is then covered with Italian meringue, flavouredwith Maraschino, and laid in suchwise that those portions ofthe peaches which project from the glaze remain bare.</p>
		<p>Decorate the surface of the omelet with the same meringue;sprinkle it with icing sugar, and set it to a glaze quickly.</p>
		<h3 id="2471" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET “à la NAPOLITAINE”otherwise “BOMBE VESUVE”</h3>
		<p>Garnish the cushion of G^noise with coats of vanilla andstrawberry ice, alternated with layers of broken candied-chest-nut. Cover the whole with Italian meringue prepared withKirsch, which keep flat and somewhat thick towards the centre.On top, set a barquette of a size in proportion to the omelet, made by means of the piping-bag with ordinary meringue andbaked in the oven without colouration. Decorate with Italianmeringue, covering the barquette in so doing, and quickly brownthe omelet in the oven. When about to serve, garnish theomelet with Jubilee cherries (№2566), which set alight at thelast moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2472" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET ELIZABETH</h3>
		<p>Garnish the cushion of Ginoise with vanilla ice and crystal-lised-violets.</p>
		<p>Cover it with meringue; decorate its surface with crystallised-violets, and treat the omelet as in №2466.</p>
		<p>When about to serve it, cover the omelet with a veil ofspun sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2473" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SURPRISE OMELET “à l’ISLANDAISE”</h3>
		<p>Make the cushion of Genoise round instead of oval; set iton a round dish, and garnish it with some sort of ice, whichshould be shaped like a truncated cone. Cover with meringue;set a small case on the top, made from meringue, as explainedunder №2471, but round instead of oval; conceal all but itsinside with meringue, decorating the omelet in so doing, and setto browm quickly.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, pour a glassful of heated rum into themeringue case and set it alight.</p>
		<h3 id="2474" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SYLPHS’ OMELET</h3>
		<p>Dip a freshly-cooked savarin into a syrup of maraschino, andstick it on a base of dry paste exactly equal in size.</p>
		<p>In the centre of the savarin set a cushion of Gfaioisesufficiently thick to reach half-way up the former.</p>
		<p>At the last moment, turn out upon this cushion an icedstrawberry mousse, made in an iced madeleine-mould, the diameterof which should be that of the bore of the savarin. Cover themoitsse with a coat of Italian meringue with kirsch, shaping it likea cone of which the base rests upon the top of the savarin.</p>
		<p>By means of a piping-bag, fitted with a small pipe, quicklydecorate the cone, as also the savarin, with the same meringue ;colour it in the oven, and serve it instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="2475" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS SURPRISE OMELETSWith the generic example given this kind of omelets may beindefinitely varied by changing the ice preparation inside.</h3>
		<p>The superficial appearance remains the same, but every changein the inside garnish should be made known in the title of the dish.</p>
		<p>Pannequets.</p>
		<h3 id="2476" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANNEQUETS with JAMPrepare some very thin pancakes; coat them with some kind ofjam, roll them up, trim them aslant at either end, and cut theminto two lozenges.</h3>
		<p>Place these lozenges on a tray, sprinkle them with icingsugar, set them to glaze in a fierce oven, and dish them on anapkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2477" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANNEQUETS à la CREMECoat the pancakes with frangipan cream, and sprinkle thelatter with crushed macaroons. For the rest of the procedurefollow №2476.</h3>
		<h3 id="2478" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PANNEQUETS MERINGUESCoat the pancakes with Italian meringue, flavoured with kirschand maraschino; roll them up, cut them into lozenges as above, and set them on a tray. Decorate them by means of the piping-bag with the same meringue; sprinkle them with icing sugar, andset them to colour quickly in the oven.</h3>
		<h3 id="2479" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDINGS</h3>
		<p>English puddings are almost innumerable; but many of themlie more within the pastrycook’s than the cook’s province, and theirenumeration here could not serve a very useful purpose. The namePudding is, moreover, applied to a whole host of preparations whichare really nothing more than custards—as, for example, “custardpudding.” If both of the foregoing kinds of puddings be passed over, puddings proper which belong to hot sweets may be dividedinto eight classes, of which I shall first give the generic recipes, from</p>
		<p>which all pudding entremets given hereafter are derived. Theeight classes are :—</p>
		<p>(1) Puddings with cream.</p>
		<p>(2) Fruit puddings.</p>
		<p>(3) English fruit puddings.</p>
		<p>(4) Plum puddings.</p>
		<p>(5) French and German bread puddings.</p>
		<p>(6) English and French paste puddings.</p>
		<p>(7) Rice puddings.</p>
		<p>(8) Souffldd puddings.</p>
		<p>Puddings allow of various accompanying sauces, which will begiven in each recipe. The majority of English puddings may beaccompanied by stewed fruit, Melba sauce, or whipped cream “k laChantilly."</p>
		<p>Puddings with Cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2480" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ALMOND PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation for souffl£d pudding (№2505), moistenedwith almond milk. Pour it into copiously-buttered moulds, sprinkled inside with splintered and grilled almonds.</p>
		<p>Set to poach in the bain-marie. As an accompaniment serve asabayon prepared with white wine and flavoured with orgeat.</p>
		<h3 id="2481" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH ALMOND PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Mix to the consistence of a pomade four oz. of butter andfive oz. of powdered sugar; add eight oz. of finely-choppedalmonds, a pinch of table salt, a half table-spoonful of orange-flower water, two eggs, two egg-yolks, and one-sixth pint of cream.Pour this preparation into a buttered pie-dish, and cook in a bain-marie in the oven.</p>
		<p>N.B.—English puddings of what kind soever are served in thedishes or basins in which they have cooked.</p>
		<h3 id="2482" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BISCUIT PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Crush eight oz. of lady’s-finger biscuits in a saucepan, andmoisten them with one pint of boiling milk containing five oz. ofsugar. Stir the whole over the fire, and add five oz. of candiedfruit, cut into dice and mixed with currants (both products havingbeen macerated in kirsch), three egg-yolks, four oz. of meltedbutter, and the white of five eggs beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Set to poach in a bain-marie, in a low, even Charlotte mould, or in a pie-dish, and serve an apricot sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2483" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CABINET PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Garnish a buttered cylinder-mould with lady’s-finger biscuitsor slices of buttered biscuit, saturated with some kind of liqueur;</p>
		<p>73»</p>
		<p>arranging them in alternate layers with a salpicon of candied fruitand currants, macerated in liqueur. Here and there spread a littleapricot jam.</p>
		<p>Fill up the mould, little by little, with preparation №2639, flavoured according to fancy. Poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Turn out the pudding at the last moment, and coat it withEnglish custard flavoured with vanilla.</p>
		<h3 id="2484" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRUIT PUDDING</h3>
		<p>This pudding requires very careful treatment. The custardwhich serves as its base is the same as that of Cabinet Pudding, except that it is thickened by seven eggs and seven egg-yolks perquart of milk. This preparation is, moreover, combined with apurde of fruit suited to the pudding.</p>
		<p>Procedure: Butter a mould; set it in a bain-marie, and pour afew table-spoonfuls of the above preparation into it. Let it set, andupon this set custard sprinkle a layer of suitable fruit, sliced. Thisfruit may be apricots, peaches, pears, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> Cover the fruit with afresh coat of custard, but more copiously than in the first case; letthis custard set as before; cover it with fruit, and proceed in thesame order until the mould is full.</p>
		<p>It is, in short, another form of aspic-jelly preparation, but hotinstead of cold. If the solidification of the layers of custard werenot ensured, the fruit would fall to the bottom of the mould insteadof remaining distributed between the layers of custard, and theresult would be the collapse of the pudding as soon as it wasturned out.</p>
		<p>Continue the cooking in the bain-marie; let the preparationstand a few minutes before turning it out, and serve at the sametime a sauce made from the same fruit as that used for the pudding.</p>
		<p>English Fruit Puddings.</p>
		<h3 id="2485" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APPLE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Prepare a suet paste from one lb. of flour, ten oz. of finely-chopped suet, quarter of a pint of water and a pinch of salt.</p>
		<p>Let the paste rest for an hour, and roll it out to a thickness ofone-third of an inch.</p>
		<p>With this layer of paste, line a well-buttered dome-mould or largepudding-basin. Garnish with sliced apples mixed with powderedsugar and flavoured with a chopped piece of lemon peel.</p>
		<p>Close the mould with a well-sealed-down layer of paste; wrapthe mould in a piece of linen, which should be firmly fastened withstring; plunge it into a saucepan containing boiling water, and in</p>
		<p>the case of a quart pudding-basin or mould, let it cook for aboutthree hours.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This pudding may be made with other fleshy fruit, as alsowith certain vegetables such as the pumpkin, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2486" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PLUM PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Put into a basin one lb. of chopped suet; one lb. of bread-crumb; half lb. of flour; half lb. of peeled and chopped apples ;half lb. each of Malaga raisins, currants and sultanas; two oz. eachof candied orange, lemon and cedrat rinds, cut into small dice; twooz. of ginger; four oz. of chopped almonds; eight oz. of powderedsugar; the juice and the chopped rind of half an orange and halfa lemon; one-third oz. of mixed spices, containing a large quantityof cinnamon; three eggs; quarter of a pint of rum or brandy, andone-third of a pint of stout. The fruit should, if possible, havepreviously macerated in liqueur for a long time.</p>
		<p>Thoroughly mix the whole.</p>
		<p>Pour the preparation into white earthenware pudding-basins, with projecting rims; press it into them, and then wrap them in abuttered and flour-dusted cloth which tie into a knot on top.</p>
		<p>Cook in boiling water or in steam for four hours.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, sprinkle the puddings with heatedbrandy or rum, and set them alight, or accompany them, eitherwith a sabayon with rum, with Brandy Butter (as directed under“Gil-Blas pancakes” but without sugar), or with an Englishcustard thickened with arrowroot.</p>
		<h3 id="2487" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">AMERICAN PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Put into a basin two and a half oz. of bread-crumb; three oz.of powdered sugar; three oz. of flour; two and a half oz. of marrowand an equal quantity of suet (both chopped); three oz. of candiedfruit cut into dice; one egg and three egg-yolks, a pinch of choppedorange or lemon zest; a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and aliqueur-glassful of brandy or rum.</p>
		<p>Mix up the whole; pour the preparation into a buttered anddredged mould or basin, and cook in the bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Serve a sabayon with rum at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2488" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MARROW PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Melt half a lb. of beef-marrow and two oz. of suet, in a bam- Imarie, and let it get tepid. Then work this grease in a basin withhalf a lb. of powdered sugar; three oz. of bread-crumbs, dipped inmilk and pressed; three whole eggs and eight egg-yolks; half a lb.of candied fruit, cut into dice; three oz. of sultanas and two oz. ofpipped, Malaga raisins.</p>
		<p>Pour this preparation into an even, deep, buttered and dredgedborder-mould; and poach in the bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Serve a sabayon with rum at the same time.</p>
		<p>Bread Puddings.</p>
		<h3 id="2489" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH BREAD PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Butter some thin slices of crumb of bread and distribute overthem some currants and sultanas, swelled in tepid water and welldrained. Set these slices in a pie-dish; cover with preparationNo. 2638, and poach in front of the oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2490" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRENCH BREAD PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Soak two-thirds of a lb. of white bread-crumb in one and three-</p>
		<p>quarter pints of boiled milk, flavoured with vanilla and containingeight oz. of sugar. Rub through a sieve and add: four whole eggs, six egg-yolks, and four egg-whites, beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Pour this preparation into a deep, buttered border-mould, dusted with bread-crumbs; and poach in bain-marie.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment, serve either an English custard, a vanilla-flavoured sabayon, or a fruit sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2491" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GERMAN BREAD PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Soak two-thirds of a lb. of brown bread-crumb in one and</p>
		<p>three quarter pints of Rhine wine, Moselle or beer, containing halfa lb. of moist sugar and a little cinnamon. Rub through a sieveand add four eggs, six egg-yolks, five oz. of melted butter, andthe whites of four eggs beaten to a froth. Poach in a bain-marie asin the preceding case. The adjunct to this pudding is invariably afruit syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2492" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SCOTCH BREAD PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for №2490, but add five oz. of slicedseasonable fruit. Mould and poach in the same way, andserve a red-currant sauce flavoured with raspberries, as an accom-paniment.</p>
		<p>Paste Puddings.</p>
		<h3 id="2493" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TAPIOCA</h3>
		<p>Sprinkle eight oz. of tapioca into one and three-quarter pintsot boiling milk, containing four oz. of sugar, a pinch of salt andthree oz. of butter.</p>
		<p>Cook in the oven for twenty minutes; transfer the preparationto another saucepan, and add to it six egg-yolks, two and a half oz.of butter, and the whites of four eggs beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Pour the whole into a well-buttered cylinder-mould, sprinkledwith tapioca, and poach in the bain-marie until the preparation</p>
		<p>seems resilient to the touch. Let the pudding stand for seven oreight minutes before turning it out. Serve an English custard, a sabayon or a fruit sauce as accompaniment.</p>
		<h3 id="2494" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAGO PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed as above, but substitute sago for the tapioca, andsprinkle the inside of the mould with sago. The treatment andadjuncts are the same.</p>
		<h3 id="2495" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SEMOLINA PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for №2493, but use semolina instead of tapioca, and sprinkle the mould with granulated semolina.</p>
		<h3 id="2496" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VERMICELLI PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for №2493, but use vermicelli, and sprinklethe mould with bits of vermicelli, which should not be broken upovermuch.</p>
		<h3 id="2497" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRESH-NOODLE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed in exactly the same way as for №2493.</p>
		<h3 id="2498" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH TAPIOCA, SAGO, and SEMOLINAPUDDINGS, ETC.</h3>
		<p>Whatever be the paste used, it should be cooked in very slightly-sugared milk, flavoured according to fancy, and in the quantitiesgiven above. Thicken by means of two eggs per pint of thepreparation; pour the whole into a buttered pie-dish, and cook inthe oven in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>N.B.—All English puddings of this class are made in the sameway, and, as already stated, are served in the dish in which they havecooked.</p>
		<h3 id="2499" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRAZILIAN PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Make the preparation for tapioca pudding and pour it into amould, clothed with sugar cooked to the caramel stage.</p>
		<p>Poach in a bain-marie and serve plain.</p>
		<h3 id="2500" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHEVREUSE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>This is semolina pudding served with a Sabayon, flavoured withkirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2501" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Prepare the rice as directed under №2404, and mix with it(per lb. of raw rice) the whites of fifteen eggs beaten to a stiff froth.Mould in buttered moulds sprinkled with raspings.</p>
		<p>The cooking and the adjuncts are the same as for Nos. 2493,2494, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2502" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH RICE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>The quantities for this pudding are: six cz. of rice, one quartof milk (flavoured according to fancy), two oz. of sugar and threeoz. of butter. The grains of rice should be kept somewhat firm, but the whole should be rather liquid. Thicken with three eggs ;cook the preparation in the oven, in a pie-dish; and on taking thepudding out of the oven sprinkle its surface with icing sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2503" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE and CHOCOLATE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Add two oz. of chocolate to every lb. of the preparation of rice, made after №2404, and combine therewith the whites of three eggsbeaten to a fairly stiff froth; pour the preparation into a butteredpie-dish, and cook in the oven.</p>
		<p>Serve some chocolate custard (combined with its bulk of whiskedcream) separately. *</p>
		<p>N.B.—This sweet may be served hot or cold.</p>
		<p>Souffl^d Puddings.</p>
		<h3 id="2504" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAXON PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Work four oz. of butter to a pomade in a basin. Add four oz.of powdered sugar and four oz. of sifted flour, and dilute withtwo-thirds pint of boiled milk.</p>
		<p>Boil this preparation, stirring it the while; and dry it over afierce fire as in the case of a panada for a “Pate a choux.”</p>
		<p>Take off the fire; thicken with five egg-yolks; and then care-fully mix with it the five whites beaten to a stiff froth. Pour intowell-buttered moulds, and poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment serve an English custard or a Sabayon, flavoured according to fancy.</p>
		<h3 id="2505" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ALMOND SOUFFLED PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation as for №2504, but use almond milkinstead of cow’s milk. Pour the preparation into buttered moulds, sprinkled with splintered and grilled almonds, and poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment serve a white-wine Sabayon flavouredwith orgeat.</p>
		<h3 id="2506" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING, DENISE</h3>
		<p>Finely pound four oz. of freshly-washed and peeled almonds, and add thereto, from time to time, a few drops of fresh water.When the almonds form a smooth paste, add the necessary quantityof water to them to produce one pint of milk. Strain throughmuslin and slightly twist the latter in order to express all thecontained liquid.</p>
		<p>With this almond milk, dilute three oz. of flour and three oz.of rice cream, mixed in a saucepan, and take care that no lumpsform. Strain the whole through a strainer, and add five oz. of sugar, three oz. of butter and a little salt.</p>
		<p>Set the saucepan on the fire; boil, stirring the while, and thenstir briskly with a spatula until the preparation acquires'The con-sistence of a thick paste and falls from the spatula without leavingany adhering portions. Pour this paste into a basin and combinetherewith: first, little by little, two oz. of fresh butter; then, eightegg-yolks, two ounces of finely-pounded almonds moistened witha tablespoon ful of kirsch and as much maraschino, and the whitesof five eggs beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>This pudding is cooked in a bain-marie in one of the followingways :</p>
		<p>(1) In a buttered pie dish. In this case, on taking the puddingout of the bain-marie, sprinkle its surface with icing sugar, andcriss-cross it with a red-hot iron.</p>
		<p>(2) In a shallow, buttered and dredged, Charlotte-mould.</p>
		<p>(3) In fairly shallow, buttered dome-moulds, lined inside withroundels one inch in diameter, stamped (by means of a fancy-cutter)out of a layer of Genoise or a layer of “lady’s-finger-biscuit”preparation, about one-third of an inch thick.</p>
		<p>In the two last cases, the pudding is coated with an apricotsauce, mixed with almond milk, and a sauceboat of the same sauceis served separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2507" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LEMON SOUFFLED PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Make the preparation for №2504, and flavour it with a pieceof lemon rind. The treatment is the same.</p>
		<p>Serve an English custard, flavoured with lemon separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2508" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGE, CURA^OA, ANISETTE, ANDBENEDICTINE PUDDINGS, ETC.</h3>
		<p>For all these puddings the procedure is the same as for №2504, and only the flavour changes.</p>
		<p>Accompany each with an English custard, flavoured like theparticular pudding.</p>
		<h3 id="2509" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">INDIAN SOUFFLED PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Take some souffled-pudding preparation and add to it twooz. of powdered ginger, and five oz. of candied ginger, cut intodice. Proceed in the same way as for №2504.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment, serve an English custard flavoured withginger.</p>
		<h3 id="3510" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHESTNUT SOUFFLED PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Cook two lbs. of peeled chestnuts in a light, vanilla-flavouredsyrup.</p>
		<p>Rub them through a sieve, add five oz. of powdered sugar andthree oz. of butter to the pur£e, and dry it over a fierce fire.Thicken it with eight egg-yolks and finish it with the whites of sixeggs, beaten to a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Poach in buttered moulds in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment, serve, either an English custard, or avanilla-flavoured apricot syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2511" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINE PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Work four oz. of butter and four oz. of powdered sugar to apomade, and add the yolks of ten eggs, one by one; meanwhilestirring the preparation.</p>
		<p>Set the latter on a moderate fire until it veneers the withdrawnspoon; then immediately add the whites of seven eggs beatento a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Pour the whole into a deep, buttered border-mould, which onlyhalf fill, in view of the subsequent expansion of the preparationwhile cooking.</p>
		<p>Poach in a bain-marie for about thirty minutes, and let thepudding stand for ten minutes before turning it out.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment serve a light Sabayon or a fruit sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2512" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING à la REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Make a souffled-pudding preparation flavoured with vanilla, and poach it in a bain-marie, in a mould clothed with sugar cookedto the caramel stage. Serve an English custard, prepared withcaramel, separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2513" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING à la REINE</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured, soufflM-^ndd'mg preparation.Take a mould with a central tube; butter it, and besprinkle itwith chopped pistachios and crushed macaroons. Set the pre-paration in the mould in layers, alternated by coats of choppedpistachios and crushed macaroons; and poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment serve an English custard combinedwith pralin.</p>
		<h3 id="2514" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING à la ROYALE</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of a buttered Charlotte-mould withthin slices of biscuit spread with jam and rolled up. Garnish themould with a souffled-pudding preparation, and poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Serve an apricot sauce flavoured with Marsala, separately.</p>
		<p>3 B</p>
		<h3 id="2515" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING SANS-SOUCI</h3>
		<p>Copiously butter a mould, and sprinkle its bottom and sideswith well-washed currants. Garnish with a souffled-pudding pre-paration, combined per two lbs. with one lb. of peeled apples, cutinto dice and cooked in butter.</p>
		<p>Poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<h3 id="2516" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED PUDDING à la VESUVIENNE</h3>
		<p>Make a souffl^d-puddlng preparation, and add to it for thequantities given in the original recipe one and a half oz. of tomatojam and the same quantity of pipped Malaga raisins. Poach in abain-marie in a mould with a central tube.</p>
		<p>When the pudding is turned out, surround it with apricotsauce, and pour in the middle some heated rum, which light whenserving.</p>
		<h3 id="2517" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROLY-POLY PUDDING</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for №2361: prepare a firm paste from one lb.of flour, nine oz. of chopped suet, one and a half oz. of sugar, apinch of salt, and one-sixth pint of water. Let this paste rest forone hour before using it.</p>
		<p>Roll it out to the shape of a rectangle one-fifth of an inchthick; spread a layer of jam upon it, and roll it up like aSwiss roll.</p>
		<p>Wrap it in a buttered and dredged cloth, and cook it inboiling water or in steam for one and a half hours.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, cut the roll into roundels half an inch thick, and dish them in a crown. As an accompaniment serve a fruitsauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2518" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RISSOLES</h3>
		<p>The preparation of rissoles for sweets is the same as that forrissoles served as hors-d’oeuvres, except that the former aregarnished with marmalade or jam, with a fruit salpicon or with stewedfruit, with plain or pralined creams, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>The best paste for the purpose is derived from puff-pastetrimmings.</p>
		<p>The shape of rissoles varies very much. They may be shapedlike half-moons, purses, small, round or oval patties, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Rissoles for entremets are also frequently made from ordinarybrioche paste, and constitute a variety of Viennese fritters. Inthis case they are invariably mentioned on the menu as “k laDauphine.”</p>
		<h3 id="2519" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLES</h3>
		<p>Although souffles are generally served unaccompanied, somestewed, seasonable fruit, or a macedoine of fresh fruit, may, never-theless, be served with them. This, of course, only applies tosoufflis with a fruit base.</p>
		<p>I have already given the formulae for so7ifflJs {№2405); I neednow, therefore, only give the peculiarities of each particularsouffle.</p>
		<h3 id="2520" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRUIT SOUFFLE IN A CROUSTADE</h3>
		<p>Line a round, shallow, well-buttered, croustade-mould with avery thin layer of sugared paste. Spread some vanilla-flavouted, stewed apples on the bottom, and upon it lay a garnish of variousseasonable fresh stewed fruits—quartered if large. The mouldought now to be half-filled.</p>
		<p>Fill it up with a vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation, and cook itin a moderate oven for about twenty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing it from the oven, carefully turn it out on a dish ;pour a few tablespoonfuls of heated rum into the latter, and set alight to it when serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2521" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ALMOND SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation of souffle with cream, but use almond milkinstead of cow’s milk, add one and a half oz. of slightly-grilled, chopped almonds, per half pint of almond milk. Dish and cook inthe usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2522" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE with FRESH ALMONDS</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as above, but use fresh splintered almondsinstead of grilled, chopped ones.</p>
		<h3 id="2523" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE with FILBERT</h3>
		<p>Make the souffle preparation from milk in which two oz. of filbertpralin per one-sixth pint have previously been infused.</p>
		<p>Dish and cook the souffle in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2524" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">souffl£ a la camargo</h3>
		<p>Make a souffle preparation of tangerines, and another of filbertsas above. Dish the two preparations in layers, alternated by“lady’s-finger biscuits,” saturated with Curasao liqueur.</p>
		<h3 id="2525" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAULETTE SOUFFLETake vanilla-flavoured, souffle preparation, thickened somewhatmore than the ordinary kind, and add to it five tablespoonfulsof strawberry pur£e. Serve some well-cooled strawberries, coatedwith raspberry purde, separately.</h3>
		<h3 id="2526" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHERRY SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a souffle with Kirsch, accompany it with some stewedstoned cherries, covered with a raspberry purde.</p>
		<h3 id="2527" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">STRAWBERRY SOUFFL&amp;</h3>
		<p>This is a souffle with Kirsch, accompanied by iced strawberriesmacerated in orange juice.</p>
		<h3 id="2528" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMEGRANATE SOUFFLE “à l’ORIENTALE”</h3>
		<p>Make a souffle preparation, slightly flavoured with vanilla. Dishit in layers in a timbale, alternated by “lady’s-finger biscuits”saturated with Grenadine and Kirsch. On withdrawing the soufflefrom the oven, cover it with a veil of spun sugar, and sprinklethe latter with small sweets, flavoured with Grenadine, in imitationof pomegranate seeds.</p>
		<h3 id="2529" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JAVA SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Make the soufftt preparation, but use tea instead of milk, andadd thereto one and a half oz. of chopped pistachios per one-sixthpint of the tea.</p>
		<h3 id="2530" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LERINA SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Take some ordinary souffle preparation, flavoured with Larinaliqueur, which is a kind of Chartreuse, made in the Lerins islands.</p>
		<h3 id="2531" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE with LIQUEUR</h3>
		<p>This souffle may be made, either from the souffle with creampreparation or from that with fruit, given in the note.</p>
		<p>The souffles made from cream are flavoured with such liqueursas rum, Curasao, anisette, vanilla, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Those made from fruit are flavoured with Kirsch, Kiimmel, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2532" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">LUCULLUS SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Set a savarin, saturated with Kirsch-flavoured syrup, upon adish, and surround it with a band of paper, tied on with string, inorder to prevent the souffle from drying during the cookingprocess.</p>
		<p>Make a souffU preparation with a fruit base, set it in the centreof the savarin, and cook it in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2533" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">HILDA SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>This is a lemon souffll, accompanied by fine strawberries, wellcooled and coated with a purée of fresh raspberries</p>
		<h3 id="2534" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE “à la D’ORLEANS”</h3>
		<p>Take some cream souffU-preparation, combined with pieces ofJeanne-d’Arc biscuits (a kind of Rheims biscuit), saturated withpeach liqueur and Kirsch, and one oz. each of half-sugared cherriesand angelica, cut into dice.</p>
		<p>74i</p>
		<h3 id="2535" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLg PALMYRE</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation. Set it in atimbale, in layers alternated by lady’s-finger biscuits saturated withanisette and Kirsch. Cook in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2536" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE PRALINE</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation; add to it twoounces of almond pralin which should have previously infused inmilk. When the souffle is dished, sprinkle its surface with grilledchopped almonds, or crushed, burnt almonds.</p>
		<h3 id="2537" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ROTHSCHILD SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Take some cream ^^/-preparation, combined with threeounces of candied fruit, cut into dice and macerated in Dantzigbrandy, containing plenty of gold spangles.</p>
		<p>When the souffle is almost cooked, set on it a border of finestrawberries (in season), or half-sugared, preserved cherries.</p>
		<p>It should be remembered, however, that the correct proceduredemands the use of strawberries in full season.</p>
		<h3 id="2538" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLE à la ROYALE</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured j&lt;?w$?/-preparation. Dish it in atimbale in alternate layers with lady’s-finger biscuits, saturatedwith Kirsch; and distribute thereon such fruits as pine-apple, cherries, angelica and grapes—all cut into dice, and previouslymacerated in Kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2539" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VANILLA SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Take some cream .^^/-preparation, made from milk in whicha stick of vanilla has been previously infused.</p>
		<h3 id="2540" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VIOLET SOUFFLE</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured souffle preparation, combined withcrushed crystallised violets. When the souffle is dished, set on ita crown of large crystallised violets, and cook in the usual way.</p>
		<h3 id="2541" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUBRICS</h3>
		<p>Into one pint of vanilla-flavoured boiled milk, containing threeand a half oz. of sugar, drop four oz. of semolina. Add one and ahalf oz. of butter and a grain of salt; mix thoroughly, and gentlycook in the oven under cover for twenty-five minutes.</p>
		<p>Thicken with six egg-yolks, and spread the preparation in layerstwo-thirds of an inch thick over a buttered tray. Pass a piece ofbutter over the surface to prevent its drying, and leave to cool.</p>
		<p>Then cut up this preparation into rings three inches in diameter.</p>
		<p>Heat some clarified butter in a frying-pan; set the ringsin it; brown them on both sides, and dish them in a circle.</p>
		<p>Garnish the centre of each ring with a tablespoonful of red-currantjelly, or very firm quince jelly.</p>
		<p>Timbales.</p>
		<h3 id="2542" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE à la D’AREMBERG</h3>
		<p>Line a buttered Charlotte mould with some fairly firm Briochepaste. Garnish the mould with quartered pears, cooked in vanilla-flavoured syrup, kept rather firm and alternated by apricot jam.</p>
		<p>Close the timbale with a layer of the same paste, well sealeddown round the slightly-moistened edges, and cut a slit in themiddle for the escape of steam. Cook in a good moderate ovenfor about forty minutes.</p>
		<p>On taking the timbale out of the oven, turn it out on a dish, and accompany it with a maraschino-flavoured apricot sauce.</p>
		<h3 id="2543" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BOURDALOUE TIMBALE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a dry paste, combined with four ounces of finely-chopped almonds per one lb. of flour.</p>
		<p>With this paste line a buttered timbale mould, and garnish itwith various stewed fruits, alternated by layers of frangipan cream.Cover with a layer of the same paste, and bake in a good moderateoven.</p>
		<p>When the timbale is turned out, coat it with a vanilla-flavouredapricot syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2544" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MARIE-LOUISE TIMBALE</h3>
		<p>Take a stale G/noise cooked in a deep Charlotte mould; pressthe blade of a knife into it and cut it all round, leaving a base.</p>
		<p>Remove the inside crumb in one piece which should resemble alarge cork in shape. Cut this crumb into slices half-inch thick;coat each slice with Italian meringue, and, upon the latter, distri-bute a salpicon of peaches, cherries and pine-apple.</p>
		<p>Coat the outside of the timbale with the same meringue, anddecorate it; put the slices back inside, and set them one upon theother. Owing to the inserted garnish these slices naturally projectabove the sides of the timbale; surround them therefore with aborder of poached peaches, separated by a bit of meringue.</p>
		<p>Put the timbale in a mild oven to colour the meringue, andserve a Kirsch-flavoured peach sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2545" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MONTMORENCY TIMBALE</h3>
		<p>Cook a brioche in a mould of the required size. When it isquite cold, remove all the crumb from its inside, leaving a thicknessof three-quarters of an inch on the bottom and sides. Coat allround, by means of a brush, with apricot jam cooked to the small-</p>
		<p>thread, stage, and decorate with pieces of puff-paste in the shapeof crescents, lozenges, roundels, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, colourlessly baked in amoderate oven. When about to serve, pour in a garnish of stonedcherries, cooked in a thin syrup, thickened with raspberry-flavouredred-currant jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="2546" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cook a brioche in a Charlotte-mould, and, when it is quitecold, remove the crumb from its inside as above. Coat the outsidewith apricot jam, and decorate with candied fruit. When about toserve, pour into it a garnish consisting of peeled and quarteredpears, apples, peaches and apricots, cooked in vanilla-flavouredsyrup; pine-apple cut into large dice, lozenges of angelica; half-almonds; and raisins, swelled in tepid water. Cohere thisgarnish with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot pur£e.</p>
		<h3 id="2547" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">timbale a la favart</h3>
		<p>Cook a brioche in a Richelieu-mould, and hollow it out anddecorate it as above. The garnish of this timbale consists of onlywhole or halved fruit, and vanilla-flavoured chestnuts; and theseare cohered with Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup, combined withone quart of a pur&lt;£e of chestnut remains.</p>
		<p>Pour the garnish into the timbale just before serving.</p>
		<p>Hot Fruit Entremets.</p>
		<h3 id="2548" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS (Abricots)</h3>
		<p>Whether fresh or preserved, apricots used for sweets shouldalways be peeled. When preserved apricots are used, it is well tocook them again before using them, for sometimes they are inclinedto be too firm.</p>
		<h3 id="2549" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la BOURDALOUE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a flawn-crust, and bake it without colouration. Garnishits bottom with a layer of thin frangipan cream, combined withcrushed macaroons. Upon this cream set some half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and cover them with a layer ofthe same cream.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the surface with crushed macaroons and melted butterand glaze quickly.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The above is the usual procedure, but fruit “k laBourdaloue” may also be prepared in the following ways: (1) Setthe fruit in a shallow timbale, between two layers of cream, the upperone of which should be covered with gratin; (2) set the fruit in aborder of rice or semolina, with the same coat of gratin upon the</p>
		<p>cream; (3) set the fruit in a border of Genoise, combined withapricots.</p>
		<h3 id="2550" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la COLBERT</h3>
		<p>Poach some fine half-apricots in syrup, keeping them somewhatfirm.</p>
		<p>Drain them; dry them, and garnish their hollows with “rice forentremets” (№2404) in suchwise as to reconstruct the fruit.Treat them d Fanglaise, with very fine bread-crumbs; fry justbefore dishing, and drain. Stick a small stalk of angelica intoeach apricot, in imitation of the stems, and dish them on anapkin.</p>
		<p>Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2551" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la CONDE</h3>
		<p>On a round dish prepare a border of vanilla-flavoured, sweetrice, either by means of a knife, or by means of an even, buttered, border-mould.</p>
		<p>Upon this border set some apricots poached in syrup; decoratewith candied fruit, and coat with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2552" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la CONDE (2nd Method)</h3>
		<p>Set a crown of small Gtnoise roundels on a dish; on each roundelset a fine poached half-apricot (convex side undermost), and seta half-sugared cherry in the hollow of each half-apricot. In themiddle of the crown arrange a pyramid of rice croquettes, the sizeand shape of apricots.</p>
		<p>Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2553" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la CUSSY</h3>
		<p>Garnish the flat side of some macaroons with a layer of smoothfruit salpicon, cohered with an apricot purée; set a fine poachedhalf-apricot on each macaroon, coat with Italian meringue; dish inthe form of a crown, and place the dish in a moderate oven for afew minutes to dry, but not to colour, the meringue.</p>
		<p>Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2554" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ABRICOTS GRATINES</h3>
		<p>Spread an even layer, one inch thick, of stiff stewed apples orstewed semolina (prepared like rice for entremets) on a dish. Setthereon some fine half-apricots poached in syrup; entirely coverthe latter with a somewhat thin preparation of “Pralin a Cond£,”sprinkle with icing sugar, and set the dish in the oven to slightlycolour the pralin.</p>
		<h3 id="2555" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ABRICOTS MERINGUES</h3>
		<p>Spread a layer of vanilla-flavoured sweet rice on a dish, andset some poached half-apricots thereon. Cover with ordinarymeringue; shaping the latter like a dome or a Charlotte; decoratewith the same meringue; sprinkle with icing sugar, and placethe dish in the oven in order to slightly cook the meringue.</p>
		<p>On withdrawing the dish from the oven, garnish the decorativeportions alternately with apricot and red-currant jam.</p>
		<h3 id="2556" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ABRICOTS MERINGUES (Another Method)</h3>
		<p>Prepare a colourlessly-baked deep flawn-crust. Garnish thebottom either with a layer of frangipan cream or with vanilla-flavoured semolina, or sweet rice. Set on this some poachedhalf-apricots; cover with meringue, smooth the latter on top andall round with the blade of a knife, and decorate with meringue bymeans of a piping-bag fitted with a small even pipe. For the restof the procedure follow the preceding recipe.</p>
		<h3 id="2557" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APRICOTS à la SULTANE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a GJnoise, cooked in a somewhat deep border-mould, and stick it by means of some apricot, cooked to the small-thread.stage, to a base of dry paste of the same size. Coat it all roundwith ordinary meringue; decorate it with a piping-bag fitted witha small even pipe, and brown it in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Then garnish the inside of the border with a preparation ofvanilla-flavoured rice, combined with a little frangipan cream andsome splintered pistachios; taking care to keep the preparationsufficiently stiff to be able to shape it like a dome. Upon the riceset some fine half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, andsprinkle these with chopped pistachios.</p>
		<p>As an accompaniment serve a syrup prepared with almond milk, and finished with a piece of butter as big as a hazel-nut.</p>
		<p>Pine-apple (Ananas).</p>
		<h3 id="2558" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PINE-APPLE à la FAVORITE</h3>
		<p>See №2429.</p>
		<h3 id="2559" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PINE-APPLE à la CONDE</h3>
		<p>Macerate in sugar and Kirsch some half-slices of pine-apple.Dish them in a circle upon a border of rice, prepared as directedunder №2551; decorate with half-sugared cherries and lozengesof angelica, and coat with a Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2560" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PINE-APPLE à la CREOLE</h3>
		<p>Cook a pine-apple in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup; cut it verticallyin two, and cut each half into vertical, thin and regular slices.</p>
		<p>746 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>Line a dome-mould with these slices, and fill it up withvanilla-flavoured rice; leaving a hollow in the middle. Garnishthis hollow with the pine-apple parings, cut into dice, and custardapples and bananas, likewise cut into dice and cooked in syrup.</p>
		<p>Turn out upon a round dish; decorate the top with largeleaves of angelica, and surround the base with bananas poached inKirsch-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<p>Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot syrup separately.</p>
		<p>Bananas (Bananes).</p>
		<h3 id="2561" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BANANAS à la BOURDALOUE</h3>
		<p>Peel the bananas and poach them gently in a vanilla-flavouredsyrup. For the rest of the operation, proceed as directed underNo. 2549.</p>
		<h3 id="2562" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BANANAS à la CONDE</h3>
		<p>Poach the bananas in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and then treatthem as directed under №2551.</p>
		<h3 id="2563" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BANANAS MERINGUEES</h3>
		<p>Poach the bananas in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and then treatthem as directed under the apricot recipes (Nos. 2555 and 2556);leaving them either whole or cutting them into roundels.</p>
		<h3 id="2564" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BANANAS à la NORWEGIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut a slice of the peel from each banana, and remove the pulpfrom their insides. Fill the emptied peels, three parts full, withbanana ice, and quickly cover the latter by means of a piping-bagfitted with a small grooved pipe, with an Italian meringue flavouredwith rum.</p>
		<p>Lay the prepared bananas on a dish; set the latter on a traycontaining broken ice, and place the tray in a sufficiently hot ovento ensure the speedy browning of the meringue.</p>
		<h3 id="2565" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SOUFFLED BANANAS</h3>
		<p>Cut off a quarter of each banana, and withdraw the pulp fromtheir insides without bursting the peel. Rub this pulp through asieve; add it to a cream .^^/-preparation; finish the latter withthe necessary quantity of egg-whites, and fill the emptied peelswith it.</p>
		<p>Set the filled peels in a star on a dish, and put the latter in theoven for six minutes.</p>
		<p>Cherries (Cerises).</p>
		<h3 id="2566" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JUBILEE CHERRIES</h3>
		<p>Stone some fine cherries; poach them in syrup, and set them insmall silver timbales. Reduce the syrup and thicken it with alittle arrowroot, diluted with cold water; allowing one table-spoonfulof arrowroot per half-pint of syrup. Cover the cherries with thethickened syrup; pour a coffee-spoonful of heated Kirsch into eachtimbale, and set a light to each when serving.</p>
		<h3 id="3567" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHERRIES à la VALERIA</h3>
		<p>Prepare some tartlet crusts for sugared paste. Garnish thebottom of each with red-currant ice, combined with cream, andcover the latter with vanilla-flavoured, Italian meringue, laid on bymeans of a piping-bag. Upon this meringue set the stonedcherries, poached in sugared Bordeaux wine, and arrange thetartlets on a dish.</p>
		<p>Lay the dish on a tray containing broken ice, and set the trayin the oven in order to dry the meringue. On withdrawing thedish from the oven, quickly coat the cherries with red-currantsyrup; sprinkle the latter with chopped pistachios, and dish thetartlets on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2568" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ME RING UED CHERRY FLAWN</h3>
		<p>Line a buttered flawn-ring with fine paste: prick the bottom ;garnish with stoned cherries after the manner of an ordinary flawn, and fill up with custard (№2397). Cook in the usual way.</p>
		<p>On taking the flawn out of the oven, remove the ring, and finishthe former like an ordinary meringue-coated flawn.</p>
		<p>N.B.—All fruits used in the preparation of ordinary flawnsmay be similarly prepared for meringue-coated flawns. Only suchfruits as strawberries and grapes, which are not cooked with thecrust, are unsuited to this kind of preparation.</p>
		<h3 id="2569" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">NECTARINES</h3>
		<p>Nectarines may be prepared after all the recipes given forpeaches. I shall not, therefore, give any recipes which are proper tothem. See peaches.</p>
		<p>Oranges and Tangerines (Oranges et Mandarines).</p>
		<h3 id="2570" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGES à la NORWEGIENNE</h3>
		<p>Cut a slice of peel from the top of each of the oranges, andempty them by means of a spoon. Three-parts fill the emptiedpeels with orange or tangerine ice, in accordance with the fruit</p>
		<p>74B</p>
		<p>under treatment, and cover the ice with Italian meringue, by meansof a piping-bag.</p>
		<p>Set the dish containing the garnished peels on a tray coveredwith broken ice, and quickly colour the meringue at thesalamander.</p>
		<h3 id="2571" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TANGERINES à la PALIKARE</h3>
		<p>Cut the tangerines at the top and remove the sections withoutbursting the peel. Skin the sections raw. Fill the peels with ricefor entremets, containing a little saffron; mould some of the samerice in a little dome-mould, and set it upon a carved cushion.</p>
		<p>Cover this dome with the tangerine sections; coat the latterwith some apricot syrup; and, all round, arrange the rice-garnishedpeels, opened side undermost.</p>
		<h3 id="2572" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGE or TANGERINE SOUFFLE RIGHI</h3>
		<p>Without splitting them, empty the orange or tangerine peels.Half-fill them with orange or tangerine ice, according to thefruit under treatment, and cover the ice with orange- or tangerine-flavoured j&lt;?«j^/-preparation. Place the dish containing the garnishedpeels upon a tray covered with broken ice; set in the oven that thesouffle may cook quickly, and allow two minutes for tangerines andfour minutes for oranges.</p>
		<p>Peaches (Peches).</p>
		<h3 id="2573" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">P^CHES à la BOURDALOUE</h3>
		<p>Poach the 'peaches (cut into two) in some vanilla-flavouredsyrup, and then proceed exactly as for №2549.</p>
		<h3 id="2574" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PE1CHES à la CONDE</h3>
		<p>Nos. 2551 and 2552 maybe applied in every respect to peaches.</p>
		<h3 id="2575" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PEiCHES à la CUSSY</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for №2553.</p>
		<h3 id="2576" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">p£ches flambees</h3>
		<p>These may be prepared in two ways as follows :—</p>
		<p>(1) Poach the peaches whole in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup, andset them each in a small timbale. Thicken the syrup slightly witharrowroot, and pour it over the peaches. Add some heated Kirsch, and set it alight when serving.</p>
		<p>(2) Poach the peaches as above, and set them on a fresh-straw-berry purde. Sprinkle the whole with heated Kirsch, and set italight at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2577" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">p£ches gratinees</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for №2554.</p>
		<h3 id="2578" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES MERINGUES</h3>
		<p>Prepare a colourlessly-baked, flawn crust; garnish the bottomof it with frangipan cream prepared with pralin, and upon thiscream set whole or halved, poached peaches. Cover with meringueand finish as explained under №2555.</p>
		<h3 id="2579" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES MAINTENON</h3>
		<p>Take some biscuit, baked in a dome-mould and completelycooled. Cut it transversely into slices, and coat each of the latterwith frangipan cream, combined with a salpicon of candied fruit andchopped, grilled almonds.</p>
		<p>Join the slices together in suchwise as to reconstruct the biscuit, and cover the latter with Italian meringue. Decorate by means ofthe piping-bag, and dry in the oven.</p>
		<p>Surround the biscuit with a border of fine half-peaches poachedin a vanilla-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2580" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES à la VANILLE</h3>
		<p>Poach the halved or whole peaches in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and set them in a timbale. Cover them to within half theirheight with the syrup used in poaching, thickened with arrowrootslightly tinted with pink, and combined with vanilla cream.</p>
		<p>Pears (Poires).</p>
		<h3 id="2581" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la BOURDALOUE</h3>
		<p>If the pears be of medium size, halve them; if they are large, quarter them. Carefully trim the sections. Cook the pears in avanilla-flavoured syrup, and for the rest of the operation followNo. 2549.</p>
		<p>The remarks appended to №2549 apply equally to pears andto all fruit prepared according to the particular recipe referred to.</p>
		<h3 id="2582" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la CONDE</h3>
		<p>Very small pears turned with great care are admirably suited tothis entremet. If they are of medium size, halve them. Cookthem in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and dish them on a border of riceas directed under №2551.</p>
		<h3 id="2583" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à l’IMPERATRICE</h3>
		<p>Quarter and properly trim the pears, and cook them in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Dish them in a shallow timbale between twolayers of vanilla-flavoured rice for entremets, combined with a littlefrangipan cream.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the upper layer with crushed macaroons and meltedbutter, and set the gratin to form.</p>
		<h3 id="2584" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Bake a GJtioise base in a flawn-ring, and, when it is almost cold, saturate it with Kirsch-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<p>In the middle of this base set a little dome of vanilla-flavouredrice, and surround it with pears, cooked in syrup and set upright.Border them with a thread of ordinary meringue, squeezed from apiping-bag, fitted with a fair-sized, grooved pipe; by the samemeans make a fine rosette of meringue on top of the dome, andbake this meringue in a mild oven.</p>
		<p>On taking the dish out of the oven, glaze the pears with a brushdipped in rather stiff apricot-syrup, and surround them with aborder of half-sugared cherries.</p>
		<h3 id="2585" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la SULTANE</h3>
		<p>Halve or quarter the pears; trim them well, and cook them ina vanilla-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<p>For the rest of the operation follow №2557.</p>
		<h3 id="2586" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la REGENCE</h3>
		<p>Turn the pears; cook them whole in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them cool in the syrup. When they are cold cut them intwo lengthwise, slightly hollow out the inside of each half; garnishthe hollow with rice for entremets, combined with a quarter of itsweight of frangipan cream and a fine salpicon of candied fruit, macerated in Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Join the two halves of each pear, and treat them &amp; Panglaisewith very fine bread-crumbs.</p>
		<p>Fry them at the last moment, and, on taking them out of thefat, stick an angelica stalk into each. Dish them on a napkin, andserve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2587" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIMBALE de POIRES à la VALENCIENNES</h3>
		<p>Two-thirds garnish a buttered Charlotte-mould with Savarin</p>
		<p>paste. Let the paste rise by fermentation; bake it, and let it cool.</p>
		<p>Remove the top which acts as a cover, and put it aside; thenremove all the crumb from the inside, leaving only the outsidecrust, and smear the latter with apricot syrup. Decorate withalternate bands of sugar grains and chopped, very green pistachios.</p>
		<p>Treat the cover with apricot syrup and decorate it in thesame way. Quarter some “Duchesse,” “Beurr£,” “Doyenn£” orother creamy pears; peel them; cut them into somewhat thickslices, and cook them in butter after the manner of Pommes aCharlotte. When the pears are well cooked, mix with them aquarter of their weight of apricot jam, and flavour with vanillaliqueur.</p>
		<p>Serve the timbale with this preparation; put its cover on, andset it on a warm dish.</p>
		<p>Serve a Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<p>Apples (Pommes).</p>
		<h3 id="2588" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APPLE FRITTERS</h3>
		<p>Take some russet apples, which are the best for the purpose, and make a hole through their centres with a tube three-quartersof an inch in diameter, to remove the core and the pips. Peelthem and cut them into roundels one-third of an inch thick, andmacerate them for twenty minutes in powdered sugar and brandyor rum.</p>
		<p>A few minutes before serving, dry them slightly; dip theroundels into thin batter, and plunge them into plenty of hot fat.Drain them, set them on a tray, sprinkle them with icing sugar, glaze them quickly, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2589" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">APPLES with BUTTER</h3>
		<p>Core some gray Calville or russet apples by means of the tube-cutter; peel them and parboil them for two minutes in boilingwater, containing a little lemon juice. Then set them in a butteredsaut6pan; add a few tablespoonfuls of vanilla-flavoured syrup, and cook them under cover in the oven. Dish them on little, round, brioche croiitons, glazed in the oven, and fill the hollow withbutter worked with an equal weight of powdered sugar, and mixedwith a little brandy.</p>
		<p>Cover the apples with their own syrup, slightly thickened withapricot purde.</p>
		<h3 id="2590" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la BONNE-FEMME</h3>
		<p>Core some russet apples with the tube-cutter, and slightly cutthem all round.</p>
		<p>Dish them, fill the hollow of each with butter and powderedsugar mixed; pour a little water into the dish, and gently cook theapples in the oven.</p>
		<p>Serve these apples as they stand.</p>
		<h3 id="2591" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la BOURDALOUE</h3>
		<p>Quarter, peel and trim the apples, and cook them in vanilla-flavoured syrup, keeping them somewhat firm. Proceed for therest of the operation as directed under №2549.</p>
		<h3 id="2592" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES EN CHARLOTTE</h3>
		<p>See №2436.</p>
		<h3 id="2593" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la CHATELAINE</h3>
		<p>Take some medium-sized apples, and prepare them like thoseof №2590. Set them on a buttered dish; fill the hollow ineach with a salpicon of half-sugared cherries, cohered with apricotpur6e; cover with thin, frangipan cream; sprinkle with crushedbiscuits and macaroons and melted butter, and set the gratin toform in a fierce oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2594" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la CHEVREUSE</h3>
		<p>On a dish, set a cushion of a preparation for semolinacroquettes. All round arrange a close border of quartered applescooked in vanilla-flavoured syrup; garnish the centre with asalpicon of candied fruit and raisins, cohered with an apricot puree, and cover with a thin coat of semolina.</p>
		<p>Cover the whole with ordinary meringue, shaped like a dome ;sprinkle some chopped pistachios upon the latter; dredge withicing sugar, and set to brown in a mild oven.</p>
		<p>On taking the dish out of the oven deck the top of the domewith a rosette of elongated angelica lozenges; place a small apple, cooked in pink syrup, in the middle of the rosette, and surroundthe base of the entremet with a circle of alternated white andpink, quartered apples.</p>
		<h3 id="2595" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la CONDE2</h3>
		<p>Poach some fine, peeled and trimmed apples in vanilla-flavouredsyrup. Dish them on a border of rice, decorated with cherries andangelica, as explained under №2551.</p>
		<h3 id="2596" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES GRATINEES</h3>
		<p>Set the quartered apples, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, upon a base of minced apples prepared as for a Charlotte andkept somewhat stiff. Cover with fairly thin pralin k Condd;sprinkle with icing sugar, and place the dish in a mild oven, thatthe pralin may dry and colour slightly.</p>
		<h3 id="2597" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES MERINGUEES</h3>
		<p>Set the quartered apples, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup, upon a base of rice for croquettes, or of a mince as for a Charlotte.Cover with ordinary meringue, and smooth the latter, givingit the shape of a dome or a Charlotte; decorate with the samemeringue; sprinkle with icing sugar, and bake and brown in amild oven.</p>
		<h3 id="2598" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la MOSCOVITE</h3>
		<p>Take some well-shaped apples, uniform in size; trim to within</p>
		<p>two-thirds of their height, and withdraw the pulp from their insidesin suchwise as to make them resemble a kind of cases.</p>
		<p>Poach these cases in a thin syrup, keeping the pulp somewhatfirm; drain them well, and set them on a dish.</p>
		<p>Garnish them, one-third full, with a purde made from the with-drawn pulp, and fill them up with a Kiimmel-flavoured, apple-soufflt preparation.</p>
		<p>Cook in a mild oven for twenty minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2599" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as for №2584.</p>
		<h3 id="2600" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la PORTUQA1SE</h3>
		<p>Make cases of the apples as under №2598, and poach themin the same way, keeping them somewhat firm.</p>
		<p>Garnish them with stiff frangipan cream, combined with gratedorange rind, crushed macaroons, and currants and sultanas (bothwashed and swelled in a Cura^oa-flavoured, lukewarm syrup).</p>
		<p>Dish these garnished apples on a base of semolina-croquettepreparation, and set them in the oven for ten minutes. On takingthem out of the oven, coat their surface with melted red-currantjelly, combined with a fine julienne of well-parboiled orangc-zest.</p>
		<h3 id="2601" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RABOTTE de POMMES OU DOUILLON NORMAN</h3>
		<p>Prepare the apples like those “k la Bonne-femme,” and encloseeach in a layer of fine, short paste. Cover each rabotte with anindented roundel of the same paste; gild; streak, and bake in a hotoven for fifteen minutes.</p>
		<h3 id="2602" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES IRfeNE</h3>
		<p>Select some nice apples; peel them, and cook them In syrup, keeping them somewhat firm. When they are cold, carefully with-draw their pulp, that they may form a sort of cases.</p>
		<p>Rub the pulp through a sieve, sugar it with vanilla sugar, andspread a layer of it on the bottom of each apple. Fill up theapple-cases with vanilla ice, combined with a purée of cookedplums; the proportions being one-third of the latter to one of theformer.</p>
		<p>Cover this ice with Kirsch-flavoured Italian meringue; set thelatter to colour quickly, and serve instantly.</p>
		<h3 id="2603" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAN de POMMES CHAUD NINON</h3>
		<p>Prepare a colourlessly-baked flawn crust. Garnish it withapples stewed as for a Charlotte, and shape these in the form ofa dome. Upon these stewed apples set pink and white quarteredapples, alternating the latter regularly; and, by means of a brush</p>
		<p>3 c</p>
		<p>■</p>
		<p>754 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>delicately coat these quarters of apple with some reduced whitesyrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2604" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAN de POMMES à la BATELIERE</h3>
		<p>Line a flawn-ring with some short paste, and garnish it withapples, stewed as for a Charlotte.</p>
		<p>Cover the apples with a dome of somewhat creamy rice forentremets, combined with the whites of four eggs (beaten to a stifffroth) per lb. of cooked rice.</p>
		<p>Bake the flawn in the usual way, and, on taking it out of theoven, sprinkle it copiously with icing sugar, and glaze with ared-hot iron.</p>
		<p>Various Hot Entremets.</p>
		<h3 id="3605" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MINCE PIES</h3>
		<p>Constituents.—One lb. of chopped suet; one and one-third lbs.of cold, cooked fillet of beef, cut into very small dice; one lb.of pipped raisins; one lb. of currants and an equal quantity ofsultanas; one lb. of candied rinds; half lb. of peeled and choppedraw apples; the chopped zest and the juice of an orange; two-thirds oz. of allspice; one-sixth pint of brandy; and the samemeasure of Madeira and rum.</p>
		<p>Thoroughly mix the whole; pour it into an earthenware jar;cover the latter, and let the preparation macerate for a month.</p>
		<p>Preparation.—Line some deep, buttered tartlet moulds withordinary short paste; garnish them with the above preparation ;cover with a thin layer of puff-paste, having a hole in its centre;seal down this layer, gild, and bake in a hot oven.</p>
		<h3 id="3606" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CELESTINE OMELET</h3>
		<p>Make an omelet from two eggs, and garnish it either withcream, stewed fruit or jam. Make a somewhat larger omelet, andstuff it with a different garnish from the one already used; enclosethe first omelet in the second, and roll the latter up in the usualway. Sprinkle with icing sugar, and glaze in the oven or witha red-hot iron.</p>
		<h3 id="2607" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EGOS à la RELIGIEUSE</h3>
		<p>Bake a somewhat deep flawn-crust without colouration, andhave it of a size in proportion to the number of eggs it has tocontain. Coat it inside with a layer of pralin, and dry the latterwell in a mild oven.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile poach the required number of fresh eggs in boilingmilk, sugared to the extent of a quarter lb. per quart, and keepthem somewhat soft Drain them, and set them in the crust.</p>
		<p>Between each egg place a small slice of pine-apple, cut to theshape of a cock’s comb. Thicken the poaching-milk with fiveeggs and six egg-yolks per quart; pass it through a strainer: pourthe preparation over the eggs, and put the flawn in a mild oven, that the cream may be poached and slightly coloured.</p>
		<h3 id="2608" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAIN PERDU or GILDED CRUST</h3>
		<p>Cut some slices one-half inch thick from a brioche or a stale loafand dip them in cold sugared and vanilla-flavoured milk. Drain theslices; dip them in some slightly-sugared beaten eggs, and placethem in a frying-pan containing some very hot clarified butter.Brown them on both sides; drain them; sprinkle them withvanilla sugar, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2609" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRUIT SUPREME à la GABRIELLE</h3>
		<p>Prepare (1) a border of apples, stewed as for a Charlotte, thickened with eggs, and poached in a buttered and ornamentedborder mould.</p>
		<p>(2) A macedoine of fruit, the quantity of which should be inproportion to the capacity of the mould and consisting ofquartered pears, cooked in syrup; pine-apple, cut into largelozenges; half-sugared cherries; angelica, stamped into leaf-shapesby means of the fancy-cutter; and currants and sultanas, swelledin syrup. Set all these fruits in a sautdpan.</p>
		<p>To every pint of the pear-syrup add one lb. of sugar, and cookthe mixture to the small-ball stage. This done, reduce it byadding one-sixth pint of very thick almond milk; pour this overthe fruit, and simmer very gently for ten minutes. Turn out theborder of apples, poached in a bain-marie, upon a dish, andsurround it with a border of candied cherries. Complete themacedoine away from the fire with a little very best butter; pourit into the border, and sprinkle on it some peeled and finely-splintered almonds.</p>
		<h3 id="2610" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SCHALETH à la JUIVE</h3>
		<p>Line a greased iron saucepan, or a large mould for “PommesAnna,” with a thin layer of ordinary noodle paste, and fill it upwith the following preparation :—For a utensil large enough to holdone and a half quarts:—one and three quarter lbs. of stiffly stewedrusset apples; one and a quarter lbs. in all of pipped Malagaraisins, currants, and sultanas (swelled in tepid water) in equalquantities; the finely chopped half-zests of an orange and a lemon;a mite of grated nutmeg; four oz. powdered sugar; four wholeeggs and the yolks of six; and a quarter of a pint of Malaga wine.Mix the whole well, in advance.</p>
		<p>Cover with a layer of noodle paste; seal the latter well down</p>
		<p>C 2</p>
		<p>round the edges; gild,, and make a slit in the top for the escape ofsteam. Bake it in a moderate oven for fifty minutes, and let itrest ten minutes before turning it out.</p>
		<h3 id="2611" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH TARTS</h3>
		<p>These tarts are made in deep pie or pastry-dishes. Whateverbe the fruit used, clean it, peel it, or core it, according to its nature.Some fruits are sliced while others are merely quartered or leftwhole.</p>
		<p>Set them in the dish, to within half inch of its brim ;sprinkle them with moist or powdered sugar, and (in the case offruit with firm pulps like apples) with a few tablespoonfuls ofwater.</p>
		<p>This addition of water is optional and, in any case, may be dis-pensed with for aqueous fruits. First cover the edges of the dish, which should be moistened slightly, with a strip of short paste, aninch wide. Then cover the dish with a layer of puff-paste, whichseal down well to the strip of paste, already in position andslightly moistened for the purpose. With a brush moisten thelayer of paste constituting the cover of the tart; sprinkle it withsugar, and set the tart to bake in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>All English tarts are made in this way, and all fruits may beused with them even when, as in the case of gooseberries, they aregreen.</p>
		<p>Accompany these tarts by a sauceboat of raw-cream or by acustard pudding (№2406).</p>
		<p>Cold Sweets</p>
		<h3 id="2612" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SAUCES and ACCOMPANIMENTS of COLD SWEETS</h3>
		<p>Cold sweets allow of the following sauces :—</p>
		<p>(1) English Custard (2397), flavoured according to fancy.</p>
		<p>(2) Syrups of apricot, of mirabelle plums, of greengages, of red-currant, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, the particular flavour of which should always be intensi-fied by the addition of a liqueur in keeping with the fruit forming thebase of the syrup. Kirsch and Maraschino are admirably suited tothis purpose.</p>
		<p>(3) Purges of fresh fruit, such as strawberries, raspberries, red-currants, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, combined with a little powdered sugar, and used plainor mixed with a little whipped cream.</p>
		<p>(4) Chantilly Cream, flavoured as fancy may suggest.</p>
		<p>Finally, certain entremets allow of the following sauce:—</p>
		<h3 id="2613" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHERRY SAUCE</h3>
		<p>Gently melt one lb. of raspberry-flavoured red-currant jelly.Pour it into a cold basin, and add to it an equal quantity offreshly-prepared cherry juice, the juice of two blood-oranges, a littlepowdered ginger, and a few drops of carmine; the latter with theview of giving the preparation a sufficiently strong and distinctivecolour. Finally add a quarter of a lb. of half-sugared cherries, softened in a tepid, Kirsch-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<p>Bavarois.</p>
		<p>These are of two kinds :—</p>
		<p>(1) Bavarois with cream, and (2) Bavarois with fruit.</p>
		<h3 id="2614" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREAM BAVAROIS</h3>
		<p>Preparation: Work one lb. of castor sugar with fourteen egg-yolks in a saucepan, dilute with a pint and a half of boiled milk, inwhich a stick of vanilla has previously been infused, and two-thirdsof an oz. of gelatine dipped in cold water.</p>
		<p>Put the preparation on a mild fire until it properly veneers thewithdrawn spoon, and do not let it boil. Pass it through thestrainer into an enamelled basin; let it cool, stirring it from timeto time; and, when it begins to thicken, add one and a halfpints of whipped cream, three oz. of powdered sugar, and two-thirdsoz. of vanilla sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2615" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS aux FRUITS</h3>
		<p>Constituents.—One pint of fruit pur£e, diluted with one pint ofsyrup at 30° (saccharom.). Add the juice of three lemons, one oz. ofdissolved gelatine, strained through linen, and one pint of whippedcream. The preparation for fruit Bavarois may be combined withfruit of the same nature as that used for the pur£e; and this fruitmay be added raw in the case of strawberries, raspberries, red-currants, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and poached in the case of pulpy fruits, such as pears, peaches, apricots, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2616" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE MOULDING and DISHING of BAVAROIS</h3>
		<p>Bavarois are generally moulded in fancy moulds fitted witha central tube, slightly greased with sweet almond oil. Whenthey are greased they are incrusted in broken ice after the prepara-tion has been covered with a round sheet of white paper.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, the mould is quickly plunged into tepidwater, wiped, and turned out upon a dish, which mayor may not becovered with a folded napkin.</p>
		<p>Instead of oiling the moulds they may be covered with a thincoat of sugar cooked to the caramel stage, which besides making</p>
		<p>the Bavarois sightly, also gives it an excellent taste. Another veryadvisable method is that of serving the Bavarois in a deep silvertimbale or dish, surrounded with ice. In this case, the entremet nothaving -to be turned out, the preparation does not need to be socohesive, and is therefore much more delicate.</p>
		<p>When the Bavarois is served after this last method it is some-times accompanied by stewed fruit or a Macedoine of fresh fruit;though, in reality, these fruit adjuncts are better suited to coldpuddings, which, in some points, are not unlike Bavarois.</p>
		<p>Finally, when the Bavarois is moulded, it may be decorated, just before being served, with Chantilly cream laid on by means ofa piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe.</p>
		<h3 id="2617" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS CLERMONT</h3>
		<p>Take some vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation combinedwith three oz. of candied chestnut purée and three oz. of candiedchestnuts, broken into small pieces, per pint of the preparation.</p>
		<p>Having turned out the Bavarois, surround it with a crown of finecandied chestnuts.</p>
		<h3 id="2618" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS DIPLOMATE</h3>
		<p>Clothe a timbale mould with a layer of vanilla-flavoured Bavaroispreparation. Fill it with chocolate and strawberry Bavarois pre-parations, spread in alternate and regular layers.</p>
		<h3 id="2619" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS MY QUEEN</h3>
		<p>Clothe a Bavarois mould with a preparation of slightly-sugaredraw cream, combined with dissolved gelatine. Then fill up themould with a Bavarois preparation, made from strawberry purdeand combined with large strawberries, macerated in Kirsch. Whenthe entremet is turned out surround it with a border of large straw-berries, also macerated in sugar and Kirsch.</p>
		<h3 id="2620" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS à la RELIGIEUSE</h3>
		<p>Clothe a mould with some chocolate dissolved in a syrup con-taining a somewhat large proportion of gelatine. Garnish theinside of the mould with a vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation, made from plain instead of whipped cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2621" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAVAROIS RUBANNE</h3>
		<p>This kind of Bavarois is made from differently-coloured anddifferently-flavoured preparations, spread in alternate layers in themould.</p>
		<p>It is therefore governed by no hard and fast rules, and everykind of Bavarois preparation may be used.</p>
		<h3 id="2622" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS CREAM BAVAROIS</h3>
		<p>Almond, anisette, filbert, coffee, chocolate, Kirsch, fresh walnut,</p>
		<p>orange, and violet Bavarois, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera"> &amp;c.amp;c.</abbr>, may be prepared after №2614;the flavour alone undergoing any change.</p>
		<h3 id="2623" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">VARIOUS FRUIT BAVAROIS</h3>
		<p>After the generic recipe, Bavarois may be prepared from pine-apple, apricots, strawberries, raspberries, melon, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2624" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANC-MANGE</h3>
		<p>Blanc-mange is scarcely ever served nowadays, and this is apity; seeing that, when it is well prepared, it is one of the bestentremets that can be set before a diner. Blanc-mange, as it isprepared in England, is quite different from that generally served ;but it is nevertheless an excellent and very wholesome entremet, and that is why I have given its recipe below.</p>
		<p>As a matter of fact, in order to justify its name, blanc-mange ought always to be beautifully white; but, for a longtime since, the compound word has lost its original meaning.The adjective and noun composing it have fused one with theother to form a single generic title, which may now be applied withequal propriety to both coloured and white preparations; and theverbal error is so old, dating as it does from pre-Careme times, thatit would be futile to try and correct it.</p>
		<h3 id="2625" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRENCH BLANC-MANGE</h3>
		<p>Preparation.—Skin one lb. of sweet almonds and four or fivebitter almonds, and soak them well in fresh water that they may bequite white.</p>
		<p>Pound them as finely as possible; adding to them the while (inspoonfuls at a time) one pint of water. Strain the whole through astrong towel, twisting the latter tightly; melt one lb. of loaf-sugarin the resulting milk (about one and half pints); add a bare oz.of gelatine dissolved in tepid syrup; strain the whole throughmuslin, and flavour according to taste.</p>
		<p>Moulding-.—Mould the blanc-mange in oiled moulds fitted withcentre-tubes as for Bavarois. Incrust them in ice that theircontents may set, and proceed for the turning-out as alreadydirected.</p>
		<p>N.B.—For the preparation of almond milk, modern Cookery hassubstituted for the procedure given above, which is antiquated, another which consists in pounding the almonds with only a fewtable-spoonfuls of water and some very thin cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2626" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANC-MANQE with FRUIT and LIQUEURS</h3>
		<p>All fruits, reduced to purges, may serve in the preparation ofblanc-manges, and the apportionment of the ingredients shouldbe as follows :—the puree of the selected fruit and the preparationgiven above (including the same amount of gelatine) should bemixed in equal quantities.</p>
		<p>These blanc-manges take the name of the fruit with which theyare prepared, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>: strawberries, raspberries, apricots, peaches, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>They may also be prepared with liqueurs, which should be in theproportion of one liqueur glassful to one quart of the preparation.The best liqueurs for the purpose are Kirsch, Maraschino andRum.</p>
		<p>Blanc-manges are also made from chocolate and coffee, althoughthe flavour of the latter does not blend so well with that of almondsas do the other products.</p>
		<h3 id="2627" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BLANC-MANQES “RUBANNES”</h3>
		<p>Prepare these as directed under №2621, spreading the differ-ently flavoured and coloured blanc-mange preparations in alternateeven and regular layers.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Blanc-mange preparations may also be dished in silvertimbales, in good china cases, or in deep dishes. By this means, to the great improvement of the preparation, the gelatine may bereduced to a minimum quantity, just enough to ensure the settingof the blanc-mange and no more. And the thing is quite possibleinasmuch as there is no question of turning out the entremet.</p>
		<p>In his book “The Parisian Cook,” Careme recommends theaddition to the Blanc-mange of a quarter of its volume of veryfresh, good cream; and the advice, coming as it does from such anauthoritative source, is worth following.</p>
		<h3 id="2628" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ENGLISH BLANC-MANGE</h3>
		<p>Boil one quart of milk, containing four oz. ot sugar, and pour itover a quarter of a lb. of corn-flour diluted with half a pint of coldmilk; stirring briskly the while.</p>
		<p>Smooth the preparation with the whisk, and cook it over anopen fire for a few minutes, without ceasing to stir.</p>
		<p>On taking it off the fire, flavour it according to taste; and pourit, very hot, into moulds previously moistened with syrup, that themouldings may turn out glossy and smooth.</p>
		<p>Let the contents of the moulds set; turn them out, and servethem very cold either plain or with an accompaniment of stewedfruit.</p>
		<p>Charlottes.</p>
		<h3 id="2629" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE à l’ARLEQUINE</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom of a Charlotte mould with a round piece ofpaper, and garnish the sides with upright pieces of GJnoise, glazedwhite, pink and pale-green; alternating the colours and pressingthe uprights snugly one against the other. Meanwhile, take somestrawberry, chocolate, pistachio and apricot Bavarois preparations, and let them set in flawn-rings, lying on pieces of oiled paper.</p>
		<p>Cut the Bavarois preparations into large dice, and mix themwith an ordinary, and somewhat liquid, cream Bavarois preparation.Pour the whole into the mould, and leave to cool. When about toserve, turn out the Charlotte; remove the piece of paper andreplace it by a thin Ghioise top, glazed with “fondant” anddecorated with candied fruit.</p>
		<h3 id="2630" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE CARMEN</h3>
		<p>Line the Charlotte with gaufrettes, and garnish it with the fol-lowing preparation :—eight oz. of stewed tomatoes; four oz. ofstewed red-capsicums, a pinch of powdered ginger, three oz. ofcandied ginger cut into dice, the juice of three lemons, half a pintof hot syrup at 320 (saccharom.), and five dissolved gelatine leaves.</p>
		<p>Mix up the whole, and, when the preparation begins to thicken, add to it one and three-quarter pints of whisked cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2631" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE à la CHANTILLY</h3>
		<p>Prepare the Charlotte with gaufrettes, stuck directly upon around base of cby paste, either with apricot jam cooked to thesmall-thread stage or with sugar cooked to the small-crack stage.As a help, a Charlotte mould may be used for this operation; itmay be laid on the dry-paste base and removed when thqgaufrettesare all stuck.</p>
		<p>Garnish with whisked, sugared and vanilla-flavoured creambuilt up in pyramid-form, and decorate its surface, by means of aspoon, with the same cream, slightly tinted with pink.</p>
		<h3 id="2632" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BAQUET ET PANIER à la CHANTILLY</h3>
		<p>A “Baquet” (bucket) is made with lady’s-finger biscuits, welltrimmed and stuck upon a base of dry paste with sugar cooked tothe large-crack stage.</p>
		<p>In the middle, and on either side of the baquet, set a biscuit, somewhat higher than the rest, with a hole in its top end, cut bymeans of a small round cutter; and surround the baquet with smallthreads of chocolate-flavoured almond paste, in imitation of ironhoops.</p>
		<p>The “Panier” (basket) is made in the same way, but with bis-cuits all of the same size, and without the imitation iron-hoops.On the base and by means of sugar cooked to the large-crack stage, fix a handle of pulled sugar, decked with sugar flowers.</p>
		<p>The baquet and the panier are garnished with the same creamas the Chantilly Charlotte, and are finished in the same way, witha decoration of pink-tinted cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2633" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE MONTREUIL</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom and sides of the mould with lady’s-fingerbiscuits. Garnish with a Bavaroise preparation consisting of onepint of peach purée per quart of English custard, and the usualquantity of whisked cream.</p>
		<p>Add some very ripe, sliced and sugared peaches, on putting thepreparation into the mould.</p>
		<h3 id="2634" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">OPERA CHARLOTTE</h3>
		<p>Line a mould with Huntley and Palmer’s sugar wafers andgarnish it with a vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation, combinedwith one-quarter of its bulk of a smooth purée of candied chestnuts, and a salpicon of candied fruit, macerated in Maraschino.</p>
		<h3 id="2635" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE PLOMBlERE</h3>
		<p>Line the Charlotte with lady’s-finger biscuits or with gaufrettes.When about to serve, garnish it with a Plombiere ice (№2795)and turn it out upon a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2636" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE RENAISSANCE</h3>
		<p>Line the bottom of the mould with a round piece of white paper, and the sides with rectangles of GJnoise, glazed white and pink.Set the glazed sides of the rectangles against the mould.</p>
		<p>Fill the mould, thus lined, with a vanilla-flavoured Bavaroispreparation, combined with raw peeled and sliced apricots andpeaches, pine-apple cut into dice, and wild strawberries, all thesefruits having been previously macerated in Kirsch. Let thepreparation set in the cool or on ice.</p>
		<p>When the Charlotte is turned out, remove the round piece ofpaper, and in its place lay a slice of pine-apple, cut from the thickestpart of the fruit and decorated with candied fruit.</p>
		<h3 id="2637" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CHARLOTTE RUSSE</h3>
		<p>Make a rosette on the bottom of the mould with some heart-shaped lady’s-finger biscuits, and line the sides with the samebiscuits trimmed, set upright and close together.</p>
		<p>This Charlotte maybe garnished with a vanilla-, pralin-, coffee-, orange- or chocolate-flavoured cream Bavarois preparation; or a</p>
		<p>Bavarois preparation made from a pur£e of such fruits as apricots, pine-apple, bananas, peaches, strawberries, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>The flavour or product which determines the character of theCharlotte should always be referred to on the menu, thus:Charlotte Russe d F Orange or Charlotte Russe aux Praises, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<h3 id="2638" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREAMS</h3>
		<p>Cold creams, served as entremets, belong to two very distinctclasses:</p>
		<p>(1) Cooked Creams, which are, in short, but a variety of custard.</p>
		<p>(2) The Creams derived from natural, fresh cream, whipped andsugared, the generic type of which is Chantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Cooked Creams are prepared either in special little pots, insmall silver or porcelain bowls, or in moulds. Those prepared inmoulds are turned out when they are quite cold, and are called“Cremes renvers^es” to distinguish them from the first two kindswhich are always served in the utensil in which they have cooked.</p>
		<p>For all that, the term “Creme renvers^e” has grown somewhatobsolete, and the modern expression for this kind of custards is“Cr&amp;me moul6e.”</p>
		<p>Crime au Caramel represents a perfect type of this class.</p>
		<p>The custards served in their cooking-receptacles are moredelicate than the others, because their preparation does not demandsuch a large quantity of eggs; but they are only served in thehome, like English custard. For a stylish luncheon or dinner, moulded custards-(Fr. crimes mouses) are best.</p>
		<h3 id="2639" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à la VAN1LLE, MOULEE</h3>
		<p>Boil one quart of milk containing one-half lb. of sugar; add astick of vanilla, and let the latter infuse for twenty minutes. Pour thismilk, little by little, over three eggs and eight yolks, previouslywhisked in a basin, and whisk briskly the while. Pass the wholethrough a fine sieve; let it rest for a moment or two; thencompletely remove all the froth lying on its surface, and pour thepreparation into buttered moulds or into vases specially made forthis purpose. Set to poach in a bain-marie, in a moderate oven, keeping lids on the utensils.</p>
		<p>Not for one moment must the water in the bain-marie boilwhile the poaching is in progress; for the air contained by thepreparation would then become over-heated, and the resultwould be an infinity of small holes throughout the depth of thecustard, which would greatly mar its appearance.</p>
		<p>As a matter of fact, the custard should poach, that is to say,</p>
		<p>coagulate, as the result of the surrounding water being kept at aconstant temperature of 185°F. As soon as it is poached, let thecustard cool.</p>
		<p>When it is poached in the utensils in which it is served, one eggand eight yolks per quart of milk will be found sufficient. Theutensils should be carefully wiped and dished on a napkin.</p>
		<p>If the custard is to be turned out, carefully overturn the mouldupon a dish, and pull it off a few minutes later. Moulded andpotted custards admit of all the flavourings proper to entremets ;but those which suit them best are vanilla, almond milk, almondand filbert pralin, coffee, chocolate, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> Unless used in the formof very concentrated essences, fruit flavours are less suited to them.</p>
		<h3 id="2640" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME au caramel</h3>
		<p>Clothe the bottom and sides of a mould with sugar cooked to thegolden-caramel stage, and fill it up with a vanilla-flavoured, moulded-custard preparation. Poach and turn it out as directed.</p>
		<h3 id="2641" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à la VIENNOISE, MOULEE</h3>
		<p>This is a custard with caramel, but instead of clothing the mouldwith the latter, it is dissolved in the hot milk. The custard shouldbe treated exactly like the vanilla-flavoured kind.</p>
		<h3 id="2642" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à la FLORENTINE</h3>
		<p>Make a preparation of pralin-ft.avoured custard with carameland poach it.</p>
		<p>When it is quite cold, turn it out on a dish; decorate it withKirsch-flavoured Chantilly cream, and sprinkle its surface withchopped pistachios.</p>
		<h3 id="2643" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à l’OPERA</h3>
		<p>Poach, in an ornamented border-mould, a preparation of pralin-flavoured custard. When it is turned out, garnish its midst with adome of Chantilly cream, aromatised with pralined violets. Uponthe border set a crown of fine strawberries, macerated in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup, and cover with a veil of sugar cooked to thelarge-crack stage.</p>
		<p>Cold Creams with a Wiiisked-Cream Base.</p>
		<h3 id="2644" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME à la CHANTILLY</h3>
		<p>Take some fresh and somewhat thick cream, and whisk it untilit is sufficiently stiff to span the members of the whisk. Addto it eight oz. of powdered sugar per quart of cream, and flavourwith vanilla or fruit essence</p>
		<p>Whatever be the purpose of this cream, it should, if possible, be prepared only at the last moment.</p>
		<h3 id="2645" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME aux FRUITS à la CHANTILLY</h3>
		<p>The constituents for this preparation are a purde of the selectedfruit and Chantilly cream, in the proportion of one-third of theformer to two-thirds of the latter.</p>
		<p>The quantities of sugar and kind of flavour vary according tothe nature of the fruit.</p>
		<p>It is served either as an entremet garnish, or alone in a bowl, with a decoration of the same cream, laid by means of a piping-bag fitted with a small even or grooved pipe. Send some lady’s-finger biscuits separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2646" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CREME CAPRICE</h3>
		<p>Take some Chantilly cream, and add to it one-quarter of itsbulk of roughly broken-up meringues. Put the preparation in aniced Madeleine-mould, lined with white paper; seal up thoroughly;string tightly, and keep the utensil in ice for two hours.</p>
		<p>Turn out when about to serve; remove the paper; anddecorate, by means of a piping-bag fitted with a grooved pipe, with Chantilly cream, tinted pink with strawberry and raspberryjuice.</p>
		<h3 id="2647" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BRISE DU PRINTEMPS</h3>
		<p>Take some violet-flavoured, slightly-iced Chantilly cream, andset in small dessert-dishes, by means of a spoon.</p>
		<p>' 2648—NUEES ROSES</p>
		<p>Take some Chantilly cream, aromatised with vanilla-flavouredstrawberry pur£e, and dish it in small dessert-dishes, by meansof a spoon.</p>
		<h3 id="2649" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FLAMRI</h3>
		<p>Boil one pint of white wine and as much water, and sprinklein it eight oz. of small semolina. Cook gently for twenty-fiveminutes. Then add to the preparation two-thirds lb. of powderedsugar, a pinch of table-salt, two eggs, and the whites of six, beatento a stiff froth.</p>
		<p>Pour it into moulds with buttered sides; set these to poach inthe bain-marie, and leave them to cool. Turn out, and coat with apur£e of raw fruit, such as strawberries, red-currants, cherries, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, reasonably sugared.</p>
		<h3 id="2650" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JELLIES</h3>
		<p>From the standpoint of their preparation, jellies are of twokinds: (1) wine-or liqueur-flavoured jellies; (2) fruit jellies. Buttheir base is the same in all cases, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr>, gelatine dissolved in acertain quantity of water.</p>
		<p>The gelatine should be extracted from calf’s foot, by boilingthe latter; but, although this is the best that can be obtained, themeans of obtaining it are the most complicated. The gelatinebought ready-made may also be used in the quantities givenbelow.</p>
		<h3 id="2651" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CALF’S-FOOT JELLY</h3>
		<p>Take some fine soaked and blanched calves’ feet, and set them*to cook in one and three-quarters pints of water apiece. Skim asthoroughly as possible; cover, and then cook very gently for sevenhours. This done, strain the cooking-liquor and clear it of allgrease; test its strength, after having cooled a little of it on ice;rectify it if necessary with sufficient filtered water, and once moretest it by means of ice.</p>
		<p>Per quart of calf’s-foot jelly, add eight oz. of sugar, a mite ofqinnamon, half the rind of an orange and lemon, and all theirjuice.</p>
		<p>For the clarification, proceed as directed hereafter.</p>
		<h3 id="2652" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JELLY with A GELATINE BASE</h3>
		<p>Dissolve one oz. of strong gelatine in a quart of water. Addone-half lb. of sugar, one-sixth oz. of coriander, and the zest andjuice of half a lemon and of a whole orange; boil, and then letthe preparation stand for ten minutes away from the fire.</p>
		<p>Whisk one and a half egg-whites in a very clean saucepan, together with a port wine-glassful of white wine, and pour thecleared syrup, little by little, over the egg-whites, whisking brisklythe while. Set the saucepan on the fire, and continue whiskinguntil the boil is reached; then move the utensil to a cornerof the stove, and keep the jelly only just simmering for one-quarterof an hour.</p>
		<p>At the end of that time the clarification is completed; strainthe jelly through a woollen bag, placed over a very clean bowl, and, if the jelly is turbid after the first time of straining, strain itagain and again until it becomes quite clear. Let it almost coolbefore adding any flavour.</p>
		<p>The Flavouring.—Whether the jelly be prepared from calves’feet or from gelatine, the above preparation is naught else than acohered syrup, to which the addition of some flavour lends thecharacter of a jelly. The complementary ingredients for jellies areliqueurs, good wines, and the juice of fruit; and the quantity of waterprescribed should be so reduced as to allow for the ultimateaddition of the liquid flavouring.</p>
		<p>Thus, every jelly of which the flavour is a liqueur ought to beprepared with only nine-tenths of a quart of water; and the</p>
		<p>remaining one-tenth of the measure is subsequently added in theform of Kirsch, Maraschino, Rum, or Anisette, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>A jelly flavoured with a good wine, such as Champagne, Madeira, Sherry, Marsala, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, should contain only seven-tenthsof a quart of water and three-tenths of a quart of the selectedwine.</p>
		<p>In the case of fruit jellies, the procedure differs in accordancewith the kind of fruit used.</p>
		<p>For red-fruit jellies, prepared from strawberries, raspberries, red-currants, cherries, and cranberries, these fruits, which shouldbe very ripe, are rubbed through a sieve, and combined with one-tenth to three-tenths of a quart of water per lb., according as towhether the fruit be more or less juicy.</p>
		<p>This done, filter the resulting juice, and add it to the jelly in theproportion of one part of the former to two parts of the latter.The jelly should therefore be twice as strong as for the previouspreparation, in order that it may remain sufficiently consistent inspite of the added juice.</p>
		<p>When the fruit is too juicy, rub it through a sieve; let thejuice ferment for a few hours, and only filter the clear juice whichresults from the fermentation.</p>
		<p>Aqueous-fruit jellies, prepared from grapes, oranges, lemons, and tangerines, are made in the same way. The filtering of thesefruit juices is easily done, and, except for the grapes, they need notbe set to ferments</p>
		<p>When these fruits are not quite ripe, their juices may be addedto the jelly even before the clarification—a procedure which helpsto modify their acidity. The apportionment of the fruit juicesto the jelly is practically the same as that of the red-fruit juices.</p>
		<p>Stone-fruit, such as apricots, peaches, nectarines, plums, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, areoften used as jelly garnishes, but seldom serve as the flavouringbase of a jelly. Whenever they are treated in this way, they arefirst plunged in boiling water, that they may be peeled; they arethen poached and left to cool in the syrup which goes towardspreparing the jelly.</p>
		<p>This jelly, after it has been clarified and three-parts cooled, should have a little Kirsch or Maraschino added to it, that itsfruit flavour may be intensified.</p>
		<h3 id="2653" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">THE GARNISH and ACCOMPANIMENTS of JELLIES</h3>
		<p>As a rule, jellies are served plain. Sometimes, however, theyare garnished with variously-shaped, stewed fruits, symmetricallydistributed in the jelly, with their colours nicely contrasted.</p>
		<p>A jelly prepared in this way is called a “Suddoise of fruit.”</p>
		<h3 id="2654" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">QELEES RUBANNEES</h3>
		<p>These are differently-flavoured and differently-coloured jelliesmoulded in alternate layers, even and equally thick.</p>
		<p>They are generally served without garnish.</p>
		<h3 id="2655" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JELLIES à la RUSSE</h3>
		<p>These are ordinary jellies which are whisked over ice until theybegin to set. They are then speedily moulded. By skilfullymixing two or three of these jellies, of different shades andflavours, at the moment of moulding, very effective “MarbledJellies” are obtained.</p>
		<h3 id="2656" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">JELLIES à la MOSCOVITE</h3>
		<p>These are ordinary jellies, poured into tightly-closing moulds, the sealing of which is ensured by a thread of butter, laid roundthe edges of the lids. The moulds are then surrounded withbroken ice, mixed with five lb. of freezing salt and eight oz. ofsaltpetre per twenty-five lb. of ice.</p>
		<p>The cold produced by the salted ice causes a frosted coat toform round the jelly, the effect of which is exceedingly pretty.But the moulds should be withdrawn from the ice as soon as thefrosted coat is formed and the jelly is set; for a longer sojourn inthe cold would transform the jelly into an uneatable block of ice.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Modern methods have greatly simplified the dishing andserving of jellies. They are now dished in special silver bowls ordeep dishes, and they are not, as a rule, moulded. The bottom ofthese utensils is sometimes decked with stewed fruit or macedoinesof fruit which are covered with the jelly; and, as the latter isserved in the utensil itself, the quantity of gelatine may bereduced, and greater delicacy is the result.</p>
		<h3 id="2657" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PAINS de FRUITS</h3>
		<p>These “pains” are made in ordinary Charlotte moulds.</p>
		<p>Clothe the mould with a fairly thick coat of jelly, in keepingwith the flavour of the fruit used, which may be apricots, straw-berries, red-currants, cherries, peaches, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr> Fill up the mouldwith a preparation, made as for a fruit Bavarois, but withoutcream.</p>
		<p>The amount of gelatine used should therefore be reduced.</p>
		<h3 id="2658" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">COLD PUDDINGS</h3>
		<p>Cold puddings have a great deal in common with Bavaroisand, more often than not, these two kinds of sweets have the samebase. Their distinguishing difference lies in the fact that Bavaroisare generally served without a garnish or sauce, whereas puddingsalways have either one or the other, and sometimes both.</p>
		<p>The sauces for puddings are those given at the beginning ofthis chapter.</p>
		<p>Their garnishes always consist of fruit, and the latter is eitherstewed and served separately, or it is candied and combined withthe pudding paste.</p>
		<h3 id="2659" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING à la BOHEMIENNE</h3>
		<p>Make some very small pancakes, and garnish them with asalpicon of candied fruits and currants swelled in tepid water, cohered with some fairly stiff, apple pur£e. Close up the pancakesto the shape of balls or rectangles, and set them in a butteredborder-mould. Fill up the mould with a moulded-custard pre-paration (№2639), containing a good proportion of whole eggs, and poach in a bain-marie.</p>
		<p>Leave the whole to cool in the mould; turn out at the lastmoment, and coat the pudding with a sabayon, flavoured accordingto fancy.</p>
		<h3 id="2660" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING DIPLOMATE</h3>
		<p>Decorate the bottom of an oiled deep Bavarois-mould withpieces of candied fruit. Fill up the mould with alternate layersof vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation and “lady’s-finger-biscuits,” saturated with Kirsch. On each layer of biscuit sprinklesome currants and raisins swelled in tepid water, and here andthere set a tablespoonful of apricot jam.</p>
		<p>Let the contents of the mould set in the cool or on ice, andturn out just before serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2661" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING DIPLOMATE aux FRUITS</h3>
		<p>Prepare the pudding as above, but spread a few extra layers offresh fruit in the mould, such as very ripe pears, peaches, apricots, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, all peeled, cut into thin slices, and previously macerated withpowdered sugar and half a port wine-glassful of either Kirsch, Maraschino, or Anisette, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>When the pudding is turned out, surround its base with somevery cold stewed fruit the same as one of the kinds used insidethe pudding, or some stewed, mixed fruit.</p>
		<h3 id="2662" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING MALAKOFF</h3>
		<p>Prepare (1) a gelatinous English custard, combined with one pintof very fresh, raw cream per quart; (2) a stew of apples and pears, prepared as for an apple Charlotte; currants and sultanas, swelledin tepid syrup; fresh splintered almonds; candied orange rind, cut into dice; slices of stale biscuit, or lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated with liqueur. Oil a Charlotte mould, and pour into ita layer of cream half an inch thick. Upon this cream lay</p>
		<p>3 D</p>
		<p>770 GUIDE TO MODERN COOKERY</p>
		<p>a thickness of biscuits, copiously coated with marmalade, andsprinkle with raisins, almonds and orange-rind dice.</p>
		<p>Cover with a layer of cream; lay a second thickness of biscuits, and proceed thus in the same order with a Kirsch-flavoured coldsabayon.</p>
		<h3 id="2663" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING à la NESSELRODE</h3>
		<p>To an English custard, prepared after №2397, add eight oz.of a smooth, chestnut purde, and four oz. of currants and sultanas(swelled in tepid water), and candied orange-rind and cherries, cut into dice; these four products should be in almost equalquantities, and ought to have been previously macerated insweetened Madeira.</p>
		<p>Add some Maraschino-flavoured, whipped cream to the pre-paration; apportioning it as for a Bavarois.</p>
		<p>Garnish the bottom and sides of a Charlotte mould with whitepaper; pour the preparation into the mould; completely close thelatter, sealing the lid down with a thread of butter, and surroundthe utensil with plenty of salted ice. When about to serve, turnout on a napkin; remove the paper, and surround the base of thepudding with a crown of fine, candied chestnuts, or balls of choco-late-iced, candied chestnut purde.</p>
		<p>N.B.—The English custard may be packed in the freezer, mixed with whipped cream when it is almost congealed, and thenplaced in a mould.</p>
		<h3 id="2664" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING à la RICHELIEU</h3>
		<p>Rub some stewed prunes through a fine sieve, and add to thepur£e equal quantities of very stiff, Kirsch-flavoured jelly and thereduced juice of the prunes. Let a layer three-quarters of an inchthick, of the preparation set on the bottom of a Charlotte mould.In the latter set a smaller mould (tinned outside), filled withbroken ice, and either fitted with handles that can rest on the brimof the first mould, or else sufficiently deep to be easily graspedand removed when necessary. The space between the sides of thetwo moulds should measure about three-quarters of an inch.</p>
		<p>Fill up this space with what remains of the prune pur£e, thickened with jelly; leave the preparation to set; withdraw theice from the little mould; pour some tepid water into the latter, that it may be immediately detached from the surrounding, iced preparation.</p>
		<p>Fill the space left by the withdrawn mould with some vanilla-flavoured Bavarois preparation; leave to set, and turn out at thelast moment on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2665" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PUDDING or “CR6ME REINE DES FEES”</h3>
		<p>Prepare the whites of four eggs as for Italian meringue (№2383), and add to the sugar, while cooking, its bulk of quincejelly, and, at the last moment, one and a half ounces of candiedfruit, cut into dice, macerated in Kirsch and carefully drained. Setthe mervigue, in shapes resembling large buttons, on a sheet ofpaper.</p>
		<p>Boil in a utensil large enough to take the sheet of paper, fourquarts of water, containing two and a half lb. of sugar and one-quarter pint of Kirsch. Slip the sheet of paper into this boilingsyrup; withdraw it as soon as it easily separates from the piecesof meringue; poach the latter; drain them on a piece of linenand let them cool.</p>
		<p>Meanwhile, make two Bavarois preparations; one white andvanilla-flavoured, and the other pink and flavoured with Curagoa.In these preparations the quantity of whisked cream should betwice as much as for ordinary Bavarois, whereas the quantity ofgelatine should be reduced by half.</p>
		<p>Set these preparations in even, alternate layers, in a slightly-oiled iced -Madeleine mould, distributing the meritigues betweeneach layer.</p>
		<p>Cover the mould with a piece of paper and a lid, and keep itsurrounded by ice for two hours. When about to serve, turn itout on a napkin.</p>
		<p>COLD FRUIT ENTREMETS.</p>
		<p>Apricots (Abricots).</p>
		<h3 id="2666" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ABRICOTS à la PARISIENNE</h3>
		<p>Poach the halved apricots in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Cool themand drain them; and reconstruct the apricots by joining the halvestogether with a piece of vanilla ice-crcam, the size of a walnut, inthe centre.</p>
		<p>Set these apricots upon some large overturned macaroons;cover with vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream, shaped like a coneand sprinkle with fine filbert pralin.</p>
		<h3 id="2667" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ABRICOTS à la ROYALE</h3>
		<p>Take some fairly deep tartlet moulds, and set in them some fine(cold, half-apricots, poached in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Fill up thetartlet moulds with very limpid, Kirsch-flavoured jelly.</p>
		<p>Prepare a shallow, GJnoise border, glazed with red-currant jelly, cooked to the small-thread stage, and sprinkle with choppedpistachios.</p>
		<p>3 D 2</p>
		<p>Turn out the tartlets of apricot jelly and place them in a crownover the border. Garnish the centre of the latter with choppedanisette-flavoured pink jelly.</p>
		<p>Pine-apple (Ananas).</p>
		<h3 id="2668" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ANANAS GEORGETTE</h3>
		<p>Take a fine whole pine-apple, and hollow it out to within hallan inch of its outside all round and at the bottom. Put aside theslice cut from the top, on which is the bunch of leaves.</p>
		<p>Fill the inside with a Bavarois preparation made from pine-apple pur£e, combined with the withdrawn pine-apple pulp, cutinto thin slices, and leave to set. Dish on a napkin, and return thetop slice to the pine-apple, that it may seem untouched.</p>
		<h3 id="2669" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ANANAS à la V1RGINIE</h3>
		<p>Proceed exactly as above, but replace the pine-apple Bavaroispreparation by a strawberry kind, combined, as before, with thepulp withdrawn from the inside of the pine-apple, cut into dice.</p>
		<h3 id="2670" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ANANAS à la NINON</h3>
		<p>Line the sides of a souffle timbale with vanilla ice-cream, layingit in an oblique strip from the edge of the utensil to the centre ofthe bottom of the timbale. Upon this layer of ice-cream settwo or three rows of thin pine-apple slices, in such a way as tomake the slices of the last row project beyond the edge of thetimbale.</p>
		<p>In the centre of the mould build a pyramid of wild straw-berries; cover this with a raspberry puree, and sprinkle the latterwith chopped pistachios.</p>
		<h3 id="2670" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">a—PINE-APPLE à la ROYALE</h3>
		<p>Take a fresh pine-apple and cut a slice from its top, contain-ing the bunch of leaves. Withdraw the pulp from the inside, and leave a thickness of about half an inch all round and on thebottom.</p>
		<p>Fill it with a macedoine of fresh fruit macerated in Kirsch; setit in the middle of a crystal bowl; and surround the base witha crown of fine Montreuil peaches, poached in a vanilla-flavouredsyrup, alternated by large strawberries, macerated in 'Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Return the bunch of leaves to its place upon the pine-apple.</p>
		<p>Cherries (Cerises).</p>
		<h3 id="2671" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERISES à la DUBARRY</h3>
		<p>Line a flawn-ring with good, short paste; set it on a smallround baking-sheet; prick the paste on the bottom to preventits blistering while baking, sprinkle with powdered sugar, andgarnish with fine, stoned cherries, pressed snugly one against theother.</p>
		<p>Bake the flawn in the usual way and let it cool.</p>
		<p>When it is quite cold cover the cherries with Chantilly cream, combined either with ordinary pr-alin or with crushed macaroons.</p>
		<p>Smooth the surface of the cream, as also the sides of theflawn; cover it with macaroon powder, and then decorate bymeans of the piping-bag with white and pink Chantilly cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2672" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">CERISES au CLARET</h3>
		<p>Select some fine cherries; cut off the ends of their stalks, andset them in a silver timbale. Pour sufficient sweetened Bordeauxwine (flavoured with a mite of cinnamon) over them, to just coverthem. Close the timbale, and keep it on the side of the fire for tenminutes, that the cherries may poach.</p>
		<p>Let them cool in the syrup; drain the latter away; reduceit by a third, and add, in order to thicken it slightly, one table-spoonful of red-currant jelly per six tablespoonfuls of reducedsyrup.</p>
		<p>Serve the cherries quite cold, and some lady’s-finger biscuitsseparately.</p>
		<p>Strawberries (Fraises).</p>
		<h3 id="2673" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES à la CREOLE</h3>
		<p>Set some fine strawberries and an equal amount of pine-apple, cut into dice, to macerate in powdered sugar and Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Arrange a close crown of pine-apple slices, also macerated inKirsch, upon a tazza. In the middle of the crown build a pyramidof the strawberries and pine-apple, and sprinkle with a Kirsch-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2674" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES FEMINA</h3>
		<p>Select some fine strawberries; sprinkle them with sugar andGrand-Marnier Curagao, and leave them to macerate on ice foran hour.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, spread on the bottom of a bowl 01timbale a layer of orange-ice (which should be combined with themacerating liqueur) and set the strawberries thereon.</p>
		<h3 id="2675" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES MARGUERITE</h3>
		<p>Set some wild strawberries to macerate in sugar and Kirsch.Drain them; cohere them with an equal quantity of pomegranatesherbet; set them in a silver timbale, already surrounded with ice ;cover the strawberries with Maraschino-flavoured Chantilly cream, and decorate with the latter.</p>
		<h3 id="2676" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES MARQUISE</h3>
		<p>Set in a timbale surrounded with ice some Chantilly cream, combined with half its bulk of a purde of wild strawberries.Completely cover this cream with fine, fair-sized selected straw-berries (macerated with Kirsch), rolled at the last minute in semolinasugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2677" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES MELBA</h3>
		<p>Garnish the bottom of a timbale with vanilla ice-cream. Uponthis arrange a layer of choice strawberries, and cover the latter witha thick, slightly-sugared, fresh raspberry pur£e.</p>
		<h3 id="2678" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES NINA</h3>
		<p>Prepare the strawberries as directed under №2675, andcohere them with pine-apple sherbet. Dish them as before in atimbale, and cover them with some Chantilly cream, tinted pink bymeans of a red-capsicum purée flavoured with ginger.</p>
		<h3 id="2679" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES ROMANOFF</h3>
		<p>Macerate some fine strawberries with orange juice and Curasao.Set them in a timbale surrounded with ice, and cover them withChantilly cream, laid upon them by means of a piping-bag, fittedwith a large, grooved pipe.</p>
		<h3 id="2680" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES WILHELMINE</h3>
		<p>Macerate some fine, large strawberries with Kirsch, powderedsugar, and orange juice. Dish them in a timbale and serve avanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2681" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES LERINA</h3>
		<p>Take a small black melon of Carmes; open it by cutting out abung-shaped piece containing the stalk, and remove all its seeds.Then cut out all the pulp, by means of a dessert-spoon, andsprinkle it with powdered sugar.</p>
		<p>Macerate the required number of strawberries in Larinaliqueur.</p>
		<p>Garnish the inside of the melon with these strawberries and thewithdrawn pulp; close the melon by replacing the bung cut out at</p>
		<p>the start, and keep in a refrigerator for two hours, surroundedby ice.</p>
		<p>Dish on a napkin at the last moment</p>
		<h3 id="2682" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES “REVE de BEBE”</h3>
		<p>Select a fair-sized, very ripe pine-apple, cut off a slice of it at thetop and withdraw all its pulp without bursting the rind.</p>
		<p>Prepare a square cushion of GJnoise, about two inches thick ;slightly hollow it out towards its centre, that the emptied pine-apple may be set upright upon it; and stick the cushion upon adry-paste base, of the same size and shape as the former. Glazethe GJnoise cushion with pink fondant, decorate with “royale”glaze, and set a large strawberry at each corner.</p>
		<p>Slice half of the withdrawn pine-apple pulp, and macerate itwith Kirsch, Maraschino and sugar. Pound the remaining pulpand press it in order to extract its juice.</p>
		<p>Set to macerate with this pine-apple juice a sufficient quantityof strawberries to three-parts fill the pine-apple.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, fill the emptied pine-apple with successiveand alternate layers ^f pine-apple with Kirsch and strawberries ;and, between each layer, spread a coat of vanilla-flavoured, Chantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Close the pine-apple with the slice cut off at the start, and set itupright in the hollow of the cushion. Serve the preparation verycold.</p>
		<h3 id="2683" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES à la RITZ</h3>
		<p>Set some well-sugared and cooled strawberries in a timbale, and</p>
		<p>cover them with the following preparation: rub half-pound of wildstrawberries through a sieve; add a little Melba sauce to thepurde, that it may acquire a pink tint; and then add the samequantity of very stiff vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Thoroughly cool these strawberries before serving them.</p>
		<h3 id="2684" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES CARDINAL</h3>
		<p>Set some fine, cooled strawberries in a timbale; coat them with</p>
		<p>Melba sauce, or a purde of fresh raspberries, and sprinkle thelatter with splintered fresh almonds.</p>
		<h3 id="2685" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISES ZELMA KUNTZ</h3>
		<p>Set some fine, cooled strawberries in a timbale. Cover themwith a raspberry purée, combined with an equal quantity ofChantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Decorate, by means of the piping-bag, with Chantilly cream, and sprinkle with a powdered pralin of filberts.</p>
		<p>Gooseberries (Groseilles vertes).</p>
		<h3 id="2686" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GOOSEBERRY FOOL</h3>
		<p>Poach one pound of green gooseberries in some thin syrup.When they are cooked, thoroughly drain them; rub them througha sieve, and collect the pur£e in a flat saucepan.</p>
		<p>Work this pur£e on ice, and add the necessary amount of icingsugar to it.</p>
		<p>The amount of the icing sugar varies according to the acidity ofthe fruit and the sweetness of the poaching-syrup.</p>
		<p>Combine with the puree an equal quantity of very stiffly whippedcream; set the preparation in the shape of a dome in a timbale:decorate its surface, by means of a piping-bag, with Chantillycream, and serve very cold.</p>
		<p>Tangerines (Mandarines).</p>
		<h3 id="2687" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MANDARINES ALMINA</h3>
		<p>Cut a slice of the rind from the stem-end of the tangerines bymeans of a round, even cutter, one inch in diameter. Then emptythem, and fill the rinds with a preparation of Bavarois with violets, combined with crumbled lady’s-finger biscuits, sprinkled withMaraschino. Close the tangerines with the slice cut off at thestart; let them set in a cool place, and, at the last moment, laythem on a dish covered with a folded napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2688" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MANDARINES à la CREME</h3>
		<p>Empty the tangerines, and fill their peels with a somewhatthick tangerine Bavarois preparation, combined with a third of itsbulk of fresh, raw cream.</p>
		<p>Place them in ice until they have to be served; dish them asdirected in the preceding recipe.</p>
		<h3 id="2689" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MANDARINES EN SURPRISE</h3>
		<p>Proceed as for the oranges, but for the orange ice sub-stitute tangerine jelly.</p>
		<p>Oranges.</p>
		<h3 id="2690" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGES au BLANC-MANGER</h3>
		<p>Cut the oranges and empty them as directed in the case oftangerines. Then fill them with French blanc-mange (№2625), and let it set. Close the oranges with the slices cut off at the start, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2691" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">-GRANGES RUBANNEES</h3>
		<p>Garnish the empty orange-rinds with regular layers of vari-ously coloured and flavoured blanc-manges, or with alternated fruitjellies. When about to serve, quarter the oranges.</p>
		<p>N.B.—These quartered oranges are sometimes used for thegarnishing of cold entremets.</p>
		<h3 id="2692" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGES EN SURPRISE</h3>
		<p>Cut a lateral slice from each orange, representing about one-fourthof their height, and empty them. Garnish the peels with orange ice ;cover the latter with Italian meringue; set the garnished peelson broken ice, lying on a tray, and set them in a sufficiently hotoven, to quickly colour the meringue. On taking the oranges outof the oven, close each with the slices cut from them at the start, in which are stuck imitation leaves and stalks, made from pulledsugar. Dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2693" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ORANGES SOUFFLEES EN SURPRISE</h3>
		<p>Empty the oranges as above; garnish the rinds with an orangesoujffU preparation, and cook the latter.</p>
		<p>On taking the oranges out of the oven, cover the soufftt withthe slices cut off at the start; dish the oranges on a napkin, andserve them instantly.</p>
		<p>Peaches and Nectarines (Peches et Nectarines).</p>
		<p>As nectarines may be prepared after the same recipes aspeaches, there is no need to give special recipes for the former.</p>
		<h3 id="2694" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES AIGLON</h3>
		<p>After having peeled the peaches, poach them in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and leave them to cool therein. Drain them, dish them upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream, spread in a false-bottomed silver timbale, the inner compartment of which containsbroken ice. Sprinkle crystallised violets over the peaches; setthe timbale on a block of ice, carved to represent an eagle, andcover the whole with a veil of spun sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2695" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES à l’AURORE</h3>
		<p>Poach the peeled peaches in a Kirsch-flavoured syrup, and letthem cool there. Drain them; dish them in a silver timbale, upon a layer of “iced mousse with strawberries,” and coat thewhole with a Curagoa-flavoured sab ay on.</p>
		<h3 id="2696" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES ALEXANDRA</h3>
		<p>Poach the peaches in a vanilla-flavoured syrup and let themcompletely cool. Dish them in a timbale surrounded by ice</p>
		<p>containing on its bottom a layer of vanilla ice-cream, covered witha strawberry purée. Sprinkle the peaches with white and redrose-petals, and veil the whole with spun sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2697" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">p£ches cardinal</h3>
		<p>Poach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and, when theyare quite cold, dish them in a timbale. Cover them with a veryred, sweetened, raspberry purde, flavoured with Kirsch, andsprinkled with very white, splintered fresh almonds.</p>
		<h3 id="2698" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">p£ches dame-blanche</h3>
		<p>Poach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup. When they arecold, set them in a timbale upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream, covered with thin slices of pine-apple macerated in Maraschinoand Kirsch.</p>
		<p>Between each peach, and in every crevice, put some balls ofChantilly cream, laid by means of a piping-bag, fitted with agrooved pipe.</p>
		<h3 id="2699" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES MELBA</h3>
		<p>Poach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup. Dish them in atimbale upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream, and coat them with araspberry purde.</p>
		<h3 id="2700" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES PETIT-DUC</h3>
		<p>Prepare the peaches as under №2698, but use small heaps ofred-currant jelly instead of balls of cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2701" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES à la SULTANE</h3>
		<p>Poach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let them cool.Dish them in a timbale upon a layer of pistachio ice, and coatthem with very cold, thickened syrup, flavoured with rose essence.</p>
		<p>Veil the whole with spun sugar, and set the timbale upon ablock of ice.</p>
		<h3 id="2702" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES au CHATEAU-LAFFITE</h3>
		<p>Scald the peaches; peel them, and cut them in two.</p>
		<p>Poach them in sufficient Ch&amp;teau-Laffite wine to cover them, and sugar the wine to the extent of ten oz. of sugar per bottle.</p>
		<p>Leave them to cool in the syrup, and dish them in a silvertimbale.</p>
		<p>Reduce the wine by three-quarters; thicken it with a littleraspberry-flavoured, red-currant jelly.</p>
		<p>When this syrup is quite cold, sprinkle the peaches with it.</p>
		<h3 id="2703" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES à l’IMPIs RATRICE</h3>
		<p>Cut the peaches in two; poach them in a vanilla-flavouredsyrup, and let them cool. Then drain and dry them; garnish thecut side of each of the half-peaches with enough vanilla ice-creamto give them the appearance of whole fruit. Coat the peach-sideof each with some stiff apricot sauce, and roll them in pralinedsplintered almonds.</p>
		<p>Dish these peaches upon a cushion of GJnoise, saturated withKirsch and Maraschino, set upon a dry-paste base, and glazed withraspberry glaze.</p>
		<p>Veil the whole with spun sugar.</p>
		<h3 id="2704" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES ROSE-CHESRIPoach the peaches in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let themcool. Dish them in a timbale; cover them with a purde of pine-apple with Clicquot, and serve very cold.</h3>
		<h3 id="2705" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">PECHES ROSE-POMPON</h3>
		<p>Scald and peel some fine peaches; poach them in vanilla-flavoured syrup, and let %them cool. Stone them without openingor breaking them overmuch, and in the place of the stone, putsome very firm vanilla ice-cream.</p>
		<p>Set these reconstructed peaches in a silver timbale, upon alayer of raspberry ice; cover them with pralined Chantilly cream ;and before serving put them for thirty minutes in the refrigerator.</p>
		<p>At the last moment, veil the timbale with pink, spun sugar.</p>
		<p>Pears (Poires).</p>
		<h3 id="2706" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES ALMA</h3>
		<p>Peel the pears and poach them in a syrup made from onequart of water, one-half pint of port wine, eight ounces of sugar, andthe blanched and chopped zest of an orange. Cool: dish themin a timbale; sprinkle them with powdered pralin, and serve aChantilly cream at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2707" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES CARDINAL</h3>
		<p>Poach the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and then proceedas directed under №2697.</p>
		<h3 id="2708" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la CARIGNAN</h3>
		<p>Evenly turn some very fine dessert pears, and cook them in avanilla-flavoured syrup; keeping them fairly firm. Drain them ona dish and let them cool. This done, trim them flat at their base, and empty them from underneath by means of a root spoon, afterhaving outlined the circumference of the opening with an evenround cutter.</p>
		<p>Fill them with a preparation of “Bombe au chocolat pralin£”(see Bombe, No 2826).</p>
		<p>Close them up with a little roundel of G/noise, stamped out bymeans of the same cutter as that used above.</p>
		<p>Set the pears on a tray; coat them speedily with apricot jamcooked to the small-thread stage; glaze them with chocolatefondant, and keep them for three hours in a very cold refrigerator.Meanwhile, prepare as many small GJnoise squares as there arepears; and make them one-quarter inch wider than the diameter ofthe pears. Saturate these square bases with Anisette, and by meansof a little apricot jam cooked to the small-thread stage, stick eachof them on to very thin, dry-paste bases of the same size. Coatthese prepared bases with the same apricot jam, and garnish themall round, as also their uncovered corners, with pralined splinteredalmonds.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, take the pears out of the refrigerator, setthem on these bases: stick into each a stalk and a leaf, made frompulled sugar; and dish on a napkin.</p>
		<p>N.B.—Each pear should be cut vertically into two, three, or fourpieces, subject to its size.</p>
		<h3 id="2709" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES FELICIA</h3>
		<p>Poach some quartered William pears in vanilla-flavoured syrupand let them cool. Cook also, in a pink syrup, some very smallhalved pears.</p>
		<p>Dish the quarters in the middle of a border of Viennese cream(№2641) laid out upon a dish. Cover them with a pyramid ofvanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream, and sprinkle its surface withcrushed, red pralines.</p>
		<p>Surround the cream border with the pink half-pears.</p>
		<h3 id="2710" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la FLORENTINE</h3>
		<p>Fill an oiled border-mould with a semolina Bavarois prepara-tion, and let it set. Turn it out at the last moment, and garnishthe middle of the border with stewed pears, cohered by means of avanilla-flavoured apricot pur£e.</p>
		<h3 id="2711" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES HEiLENE</h3>
		<p>Poach the pears in vanilla-flavoured syrup and let them cool.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, dish them in a timbale upon a layer ofvanilla ice-cream, sprinkled with crystallised violets.</p>
		<p>Serve a hot, chocolate sauce separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2712" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES MARQUISE</h3>
		<p>Cook the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and drain themthaJ: they may cool. This done, coat them again and again with</p>
		<p>some very stiff raspberry-flavoured red-currant jelly, and sprinklethem instantly with chopped, burnt almonds.</p>
		<p>Set the pears on a “Diplomatic Pudding,” made in a manquemould, and turned out on a round dish. Surround the base of thepudding with a border of apple-jelly croutons, neatly cut totriangular shapes.</p>
		<h3 id="2713" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES MARY-GARDEN</h3>
		<p>Cook the pears in syrup; cool them, and dish them on atimbale, upon a Melba sauce, combined with half-sugared cherries, softened in tepid water for a few minutes.</p>
		<p>Decorate the pears with Chantilly cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2714" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES MELBA</h3>
		<p>Poach the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup, and proceed asdirected under №2699.</p>
		<h3 id="2715" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES PRALINEES</h3>
		<p>Stew the pears and let them cool. Set them in a timbale, andcoat with some Frangipan cream, thinned by means of a little rawcream.</p>
		<p>Between each pear, set a well-moulded tablespoonful of Chan-tilly cream, and cover the whole with concassed-almond pralin.</p>
		<p>Serve a cold or hot chocolate sauce at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2716" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la RELIGIEUSE</h3>
		<p>Stew the pears in a vanilla-flavoured syrup; cool them, anddish them in a shallow porcelain timbale equal in depth to the lengthof the pears.</p>
		<p>Cover them with a somewhat thin chocolate Bavarois pre-paration, and place the whole for two hours in the refrigeratorbefore serving.</p>
		<h3 id="2717" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES au RHUM</h3>
		<p>Stew the pears and set them in a timbale.</p>
		<p>Thicken the syrup with arrowroot, colour it faintly with pink ;flavour it with rum; pour it over the pears, and let them cool.</p>
		<p>N.B.—These pears may also be served hot, after the samerecipe; except that the rum is poured over the pears, hot, at thelast moment, and set alight at the table.</p>
		<h3 id="2718" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POIRES à la REINE EMMA</h3>
		<p>Mould a Flamri preparation in an even border-mould, decor-ated with candied fruit. Set this to poach, and, when it is cold, turn it out on a round dish.</p>
		<p>In the middle set a pyramid of quartered pears, stewed in avanilla-flavoured syrup; coat the quarters with Frangipan cream,</p>
		<p>combined with a quarter of its bulk of crushed, dry macaroons, and with double its volume of very stiff Chantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Decorate the top, by means of a piping-bag, with Chantillycream; and serve some Kirsch-flavoured apricot sauce separately.</p>
		<p>Apples.</p>
		<h3 id="2719" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">POMMES à la ROYALE</h3>
		<p>Peel some small apples, core them by means of a tube-cutter, and poach them in vanilla-flavoured syrup. When they are quitecold, coat them with red-currant jelly, and dish them in a circle, each upon a tartlet of blanc-mange. Garnish their midst withchopped Maraschino jelly.</p>
		<p>Various Cold Sweets (Entremets).</p>
		<h3 id="2720" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">BISCUIT à la REINE</h3>
		<p>Cook, in a manqud mould, a Savoy-biscuit preparation, and letit cool.</p>
		<p>With a little apricot jam, cooked to the small-thread stage, stick this biscuit on a dry-paste base; saturate it with cold syrup, flavoured with Kiimmel, and by means of a piping-bag decorateit all round and on its edges with royale icing.</p>
		<p>Turn out upon it a Bavarois with Maraschino, moulded in aRichelieu mould of proportionate size.</p>
		<h3 id="2721" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">croCjte a la mexicaine</h3>
		<p>Cut some slices three inches long by one-third inch thickfrom a stale Genoise. Coat them with a Condd pralin, and drythem in a moderate oven.</p>
		<p>Set these croutes in a crown on a round dish, and garnish theirmidst with a rocky pyramid of plombiere ice, projecting abovethem.</p>
		<h3 id="2722" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">DIPLOMATE aux FRUITS</h3>
		<p>Prepare (1) a base of Genoise with fruit, glazed with apricotjam, cooked to the small-thread stage; (2) a Bavarois with fruits.</p>
		<p>Turn out the latter upon the former, and surround the wholewith stewed fruit of the same kind as those used for the Bavarois.</p>
		<h3 id="2723" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">ILE FLOTIANTE</h3>
		<p>Take a stale Savoy biscuit, and cut it into thin slices.</p>
		<p>Saturate the latter with Kirsch and Maraschino, coat themwith apricot jam, and sprinkle the latter with currants andchopped almonds. Put the slices one upon the other, in suchwise</p>
		<p>as to reconstruct the biscuit, and coat the latter with a layer ofsweetened and vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream.</p>
		<p>Sprinkle the cream with splintered pistachios and currants;set the whole on a tazza, and surround it with vanilla-flavouredEnglish custard, or raspberry syrup.</p>
		<h3 id="2724" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MILK JUNKET</h3>
		<p>Gently heat one quart of milk. When it has reached 95°F. takeit off the fire; add two and one-half oz. of sugar to it; flavour it asfancy may suggest; put into it six drops of russet-apple essence(or two pastils of russet-apple essence, dissolved in six drops ofwater); pour it into a timbale, and serve it very cold.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This very delicate and simple entremet is little else, in-deed, than flavoured and sweetened milk, caused to set by thecombined agencies of heat and russet-apple essence.</p>
		<h3 id="2725" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MACEDOINE of COOLED FRUIT</h3>
		<p>Take some fresh fruit of the season, such as ripe Williampears and peaches, peeled and sliced apricots and bananas, andadd to it some small or large strawberries, raspberries, white-and red-currants; skinned, fresh almonds, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></p>
		<p>Set these fruits in a timbale surrounded by ice, mixing themwell together; sprinkle them with a syrup at 30° (saccharom.), flavoured with Kirsch or Maraschino, and let them macerate foran hour or two; taking care to toss them from time to time.</p>
		<h3 id="2726" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">EUGENIA: ITALIAN CREAM</h3>
		<p>Select some very ripe Eugenia; peel, slice, and set to maceratein a bowl, with Maraschino-flavoured syrup.</p>
		<p>Set the fruit in a timbale, upon a layer of vanilla ice-cream ;decorate them on top with Chantilly cream, and sprinkle thelatter with crystallised violets.</p>
		<h3 id="2727" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MARQUISE ALICE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a /ra/z&gt;z-flavoured Bavarois in a manque mould:garnish the inside with lady’s-finger biscuits, saturated withAnisette.</p>
		<p>Turn it out on a dish, and completely cover it with an evencoat of very stiff, sweetened and vanilla-flavoured Chantillycream.</p>
		<p>On top, lay some parallel lines of red-currant jelly, by meansof the piping-bag; and then cut these lines at right angles, withthe point of a small knife. Surround the base with small puff-paste triangles, coated with “Pralin a Condd" dried in the oven.</p>
		<p>74</p>
		<h3 id="2728" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MELON à l’ORIENTALE</h3>
		<p>Take a melon that is just ripe; make a circular incision roundits stalk, and remove the resulting bung, Get rid of the seeds andwithdraw the pulp by means of a silver spoon. Cut the pulp intodice.</p>
		<p>Copiously sprinkle the inside of the melon with icing-sugarand fill it up with wild strawberries and the pulp dice, spread inalternate layers, sprinkled with sugar. Complete with one-sixthpint of Kirsch; close the melon with the excised bung, seal the jointwith a thread of butter, and keep the melon in the cool for twohours.</p>
		<p>Dish it on a napkin, and serve gaufrettes at the same time.</p>
		<h3 id="2729" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MELON FRAPPE</h3>
		<p>Select two very ripe, medium-sized melons, and, with the entirepulp of one of them, cleared of all the rind and seeds and rubbedthrough tammy, prepare a Granite after №2930.</p>
		<p>Cut the other melon round the stalk and open it. Completelyremove the seeds; and, by means of a silver spoon, withdraw thepulp piecemeal, and set it to macerate on ice with a little sugar andone of the following wines or liqueurs: Port, Curagoa, Rum, Kirschor Maraschino.</p>
		<p>Keep the emptied rind for thirty minutes in a refrigerator.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, set the emptied melon on a small block offancifully carved ice, and fill it up with the Granitd and the maceratedpulp spread in alternate layers. When the melon is full, return theexcised bung to its place.</p>
		<p>N.B.—This melon is served, by means of a spoon, upon icedplates, and it often takes the place of ices at the end of a dinner.</p>
		<h3 id="2730" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MELON EN SURPRISE</h3>
		<p>Empty the melon as above, and fill it with a macedoine of freshfruits, combined with the withdrawn pulp of the melon, cut into diceand cohered with a sugared and Kirsch-flavoured purde of wildstrawberries.</p>
		<p>Close the melon and keep it in the refrigerator for two hours.</p>
		<h3 id="2731" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">GARNISHED MERINGUES</h3>
		<p>Join the meringue shells together in couples, by means of somestiff sugared and flavoured Chantilly cream or with some sort of ice, and dish them on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2732" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MONT-BLANC aux FRAISES</h3>
		<p>Add some small wild strawberries macerated in cold, vanilla-flavoured syrup and drained, to some very stiff Chantilly cream; theproportions being *four oz. of the former per quart of the latter.</p>
		<p>Dish in the shape of a dome; surround the base with large straw-berries, rolled in beaten egg-whites and then in semolina sugar, anddecorate the surface with large and very red half-strawberries.</p>
		<h3 id="2733" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MONT=BLANC aux MARRONS</h3>
		<p>Cook some chestnuts in sweetened and vanilla-flavoured milkand rub them through a sieve, over an overturned, even border-mould; in order that the chestnut puree, falling in the form ofvermicelli, may garnish the mould naturally.</p>
		<p>Fill up the mould with the pured that has fallen over the sidesof the mould; turn out the border on a dish, and in the midst setan irregular and jagged mound of sugared and vanilla-flavouredChantilly cream.</p>
		<h3 id="2734" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MONT-ROSE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a Charlotte, Plombiere in a shallow Madeleine ice-mould.</p>
		<p>Having turned out the Charlotte on a dish, cover it on top withtablespoonfuls of Chantilly cream, combined with a puree of freshraspberries, and so shaped as to imitate a pyramidic rock.</p>
		<h3 id="2735" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">(HUFS à la NEIGE</h3>
		<p>Mould some ordinary meringue, by means of a spoon, to repre-sent eggs; and drop the mouldings into a saut^pan containing someboiling sugared and vanilla-flavoured milk. Turn the meringues overin the milk, that they may poach evenly, and, as soon as they arefirm, drain them in a sieve.</p>
		<p>Strain the milk through muslin; add six egg yolks, and with itprepare an English custard.</p>
		<p>Set the egg-shaped meringues on a tazza and cover them withthe prepared custard, kept very cold.</p>
		<h3 id="2736" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOULDED CEUFS à la NEIGE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the meringues and the English custard as above; butto the latter add five or six gelatine leaves soaked in cold water.Set the egg-shaped meringues in an oiled border-mould; cover themwith the very cold custard, which, however, should not have set;and let the preparation set in the cool, or surrounded by ice.</p>
		<h3 id="2737" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINES D’OEUFS rejane</h3>
		<p>By means of a piping-bag, fitted with an even pipe, lay someordinary meringues upon sheets of white paper, in shapes resemblinglarge macaroons.</p>
		<p>Slip the sheets of paper into boiling, sugared and vanilla-flavoured milk, and withdraw the sheets of paper as soon as the</p>
		<p>3 E</p>
		<p>meringues sever from them. Complete the poaching of the meringues, and drain them.</p>
		<p>Set these meringues, two by two, in silver or porcelain egg-dishes ;place a fine, poached half apricot in the middle of each, and coverthe whole with a few teaspoonfuls of English custard.</p>
		<h3 id="2738" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">MOUSSELINE of EGGS, MIMI</h3>
		<p>This is a preparation of ordinary Italian meringue, poached in abain-marie, in a caramel-clothed mould. Let the contents get quitecold before turning out, and serve some stewed, fresh fruit and anEnglish custard separately.</p>
		<h3 id="2739" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE à l’IMPERATRICE</h3>
		<p>Make a vanilla-flavoured preparation of rice for entremets, using the quantities of milk and sugar already prescribed. Whenthe rice is cooked, and somewhat cold, add to it four oz. ot ajilptcon of candied fruit and four tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, perone-half lb. of raw rice. Then combine with it an equal quantity ofKirsch-flavoured Bavarois preparation, or one pint of thick Englishcustard and one pint of whipped cream.</p>
		<p>Let a layer of red-currant jelly set upon the bottom of a Bavaroismould; then pour the above preparation into the latter and let thewhole set, either in the cool or surrounded by ice.</p>
		<p>When about to serve, turn out on a napkin.</p>
		<h3 id="2740" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">RICE à la MALTAISE</h3>
		<p>Prepare the rice with milk as above, but flavour it with orangerind, and omit the apricot jam and the candied fruit salpicon.Combine with it an equal quantity of orange Bavarois preparation;pour the whole into a dome-mould, and let it set on ice. Whenabout to serve, turn out upon a round dish, and cover it withalternate rows of orange-sections, skinned raw and macerated in asyrup flavoured with orange-rind.</p>
		<h3 id="2741" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">SUEDOISE of FRUIT</h3>
		<p>As I mentioned in my remarks upon the preparation of jellies, a Su^doise of fruit is a jelly moulded in an aspic mould andgarnished with layers of stewed fruit, the colours and kindsof which should be contrasted as much as possible.</p>
		<h3 id="2742" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">FRAISALIA TIMBALE</h3>
		<p>Prepare a timbale of Savarin paste in a Charlotte mould.</p>
		<p>When it is baked and cooled, remove the crumb from its insideleaving a thickness of half an inch on its bottom and sides; smear itthinly with Kirsch-flavoured syrup, and return the timbale to themould.</p>
		<p>ENTREMETS</p>
		<p>Now garnish it with alternate layers of vanilla-flavoured, Bavarois preparation and wild strawberries, macerated in Kirsch.Let it set in the cool, or surround the mould with ice. Turn outthe timbale first upon a plate; overturn it on a dish, and upon itset a pyramid of vanilla-flavoured Chantilly cream. Stud the latterall over with small, very red strawberries, or garnish it with largehalf-strawberries.</p>
		<p>Surround the timbale with fine dice of strawberry jelly.</p>
		<h3 id="2743" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">TIVOLI aux FRAISES</h3>
		<p>Clothe an ornamented mould, fitted with a central tube, with athick coat of very clear, Kirsch-flavoured jelly. Fill the mouldwith a Bavarois preparation, combined with plenty of wild straw-berry puree, and let its contents set. Turn it out, when about toserve, and surround it with very clear, chopped, Kirsch-flavouredjelly.</p>
	</body>
</html>