<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Drinks and refreshments</title>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter chapter">
		<h1>Chapter XXI <span epub:type="title">Drinks and Refreshments</span></h1>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—The quantities given below are calculated to be sufficient for fifteen glassfuls.</p>
		<h2 id="2934" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Bavaroise</h2>
		<p>Work eight <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of powdered sugar with eight egg-yolks in a saucepan, until the whole becomes white and reaches the ribbon stage. Then add consecutively: one-fifth pint of capillary syrup, one pint of freshly made, boiling hot tea, and the same amount of boiling milk; whisking briskly the while,that the drink may be very frothy. Complete at the last moment with one-third pint of the liqueur which is to characterise the Bavaroise, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="id est" class="initialism">i.e.</abbr> either Kirsch or Rum.</p>
		<p>If the Bavaroise be flavoured with vanilla, orange or lemon, let the flavour infuse in the milk for fifteen minutes beforehand. If it be flavoured with chocolate, dissolve six <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of the latter, and add the milk to it, flavoured with vanilla.</p>
		<p>If it be coffee-flavoured, set three <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of freshly-torrified and concassed coffee to infuse in the milk or flavour with one pint of freshly-made coffee.</p>
		<p>Bavaroise is served in special glasses, and it must be frothy.</p>
		<h2 id="2935" class="formula" xml:lang="fr">Bischoff</h2>
		<p>Put into a basin one bottleful of Champagne, one Sherry-glassful of “tilleul” infusion, one orange and one lemon, cut into thin slices, and enough syrup at 32<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr> to bring the preparation to 18<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Let maceration proceed in the cool for an hour. This done, strain the whole; freeze it like a Granité, and finish it with four liqueur-glassfuls of liqueur-brandy.</p>
		<p>Serve in bumpers.</p>
		<h2 id="2936" class="formula">Iced Coffee</h2>
		<p>Pour one and a half pints of boiling water, gradually, over ten <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of freshly-ground coffee, and strain it gently. Put this coffee into a bowl with 20 <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, and let the latter dissolve while the coffee cools. Then add one quart of very cold, boiled milk, in which half a stick of vanilla should have infused, and one pint of very fresh cream.</p>
		<p>Freeze the whole in a freezer, taking care to keep the preparation almost liquid, and serve it in very cold cups.</p>
		<h2 id="2937" class="formula">Lemonade</h2>
		<p>Dissolve half-<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of loaf-sugar in one quart of filtered water. Add the juice and the zests of the rinds of two lemons, and let infusion proceed in the cool for three hours. Pass the whole through a fine strainer; add one syphonful of seltzer water, and serve with a thin roundel of lemon in each glass.</p>
		<h2 id="2938" class="formula">Pineapple Water</h2>
		<p>Finely chop one and a half <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of fresh or preserved pineapple put it into a basin and pour over it one quart of boiling syrup at 20<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Let it cool, and infuse for two hours.</p>
		<p>Strain through a woollen bag; add a piece of ice and sufficient seltzer water to reduce the liquid to 9<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Keep the preparation in the cool for a further twenty minutes, and complete it, when about to serve, with three liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch.</p>
		<h2 id="2939" class="formula">Cherry Water</h2>
		<p>Stone two <abbr title="pounds">lbs.</abbr> of very ripe cherries, and rub them through a sieve. Put the purée into a basin with the stones, crushed in the mortar, and let the whole macerate for one hour. Then moisten with one pint of filtered water, and strain the juice through a woollen bag, or muslin folded in two and stretched.</p>
		<p>Add a piece of well-washed ice and six <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, and put the whole in the cool for twenty minutes. Flavour, when about to serve, with four liqueur-glassfuls of Kirsch.</p>
		<p>The saccharometer should register 9<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr> when inserted into this preparation.</p>
		<h2 id="2940" class="formula">Raspberry-flavoured, Red-currant Water</h2>
		<p>Rub through a sieve, over a basin, twelve <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of red and white currants, and four <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of very ripe raspberries. Add to the currant-water one pint of filtered water, six <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, and one piece of washed ice. Keep the whole in the cool for twenty minutes, and stir it from time to time with a silver spoon, that the sugar may dissolve.</p>
		<p>Degree the same as in <a href="#2939">№2939</a>.</p>
		<h2 id="2941" class="formula">Melonade</h2>
		<p>Rub one <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of just-ripe melon pulp through a sieve. Put it into a basin and pour over it one pint of boiling syrup at 20<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Let the whole cool and infuse for two hours, and strain it through muslin or through a woollen bag. Add a piece of very clean ice and sufficient seltzer water to reduce the syrup to 9<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Keep the preparation in the cool for a further twenty minutes, and finish it, when about to serve, with two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water.</p>
		<h2 id="2942" class="formula">Kaltschale</h2>
		<p>Peel and slice one-half <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of peaches and an equal quantity of pineapple; add four <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of ripe, melon pulp, cut into dice, and four <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of a mixture of raspberries and red and white currants, cleared of their stalks. Put these fruits in a silver timbale and keep the latter on ice. Set a little cinnamon to infuse in a half-bottleful of boiling, white wine; add six <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of sugar and the zest of one lemon; and let the whole cool. Then add half a pint of a mixed purée of strawberries and red-currants to this infusion.</p>
		<p>Filter the whole, and complete it by the addition of a bottle of champagne.</p>
		<p>Pour this preparation over the fruit, and serve the timbale very cold.</p>
		<h2 id="2943" class="formula">Kaltschale</h2>
		<p>Proceed as for <a href="#2937">lemonade</a>, but use the juice and zests of orange rinds instead of those of lemons, and the juice of only half a lemon. Put very thin slices of orange in the glasses.</p>
		<h2 id="2944" class="formula">Punch with Kirsch</h2>
		<p>Throw a good half <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of tea into one quart of boiling water, and let it infuse for ten minutes. Put into a punch or salad-bowl one <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of loaf-sugar; strain the infusion of tea over the sugar, and dissolve the latter; stirring the while with a silver spoon.</p>
		<p>Add one and a half pints of Kirsch, set it alight, and serve in glasses.</p>
		<h2 id="2945" class="formula">Punch with Rum</h2>
		<p>Make an infusion as above, with the same amount of tea and one quart of boiling water. Strain it over one <abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, in a punch-bowl, and let the sugar dissolve.</p>
		<p>Add a few thin slices of lemon, and one and a half pints of rum, and set light to it. Serve with a slice of lemon in each glass.</p>
		<h2 id="2946" class="formula">Punch Marquise</h2>
		<p>Put into a small, copper saucepan one quart of Sauterne wine, half-<abbr title="pound">lb.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, and the zest of the rind of one lemon bound round a clove. Dissolve the sugar; heat the wine until it becomes covered by thin white froth, and pour it into a punch-bowl after having withdrawn the zest and the clove.</p>
		<p>Add half a pint of burnt brandy; set it alight and let it burn itself out.</p>
		<p>Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass.</p>
		<h2 id="2947" class="formula">Iced Punch</h2>
		<p>Prepare a <a href="#2946">Marquise Punch</a> as above; when the wine is hot, take it off the fire; throw in a good half <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of tea, and let the whole infuse under cover for ten minutes.</p>
		<p>Pass the whole through a fine strainer; add one orange and one lemon, peele draw and cut into slices, and some heated rum. Set alight; leave to cool, and reduce to 15<abbr title="degrees celsius">°C</abbr>. Then freeze like a Granité, and serve in glasses.</p>
		<h2 id="2948" class="formula">Hot Wine</h2>
		<p>Pour one bottleful of red wine over ten <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, set in a small, copper basin. Dissolve the sugar. Add one orange zest, a bit of cinnamon and mace, and one clove. Heat the wine until it is covered by thin froth, and then pass it through a fine strainer.</p>
		<p>Serve with a thin slice of lemon in each glass.</p>
		<h2 id="2949" class="formula">Hot Wine with Orange</h2>
		<p>Pour half a pint of boiling water over ten <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of loaf sugar. Add the zest of one orange and let infusion proceed for fifteen minutes. Withdraw the zest, and mix one bottleful of heated Burgundy wine with the infusion.</p>
		<p>Serve with a roundel of orange in each glass.</p>
		<h2 id="2950" class="formula">Wine <span xml:lang="fr">à la Française</span></h2>
		<p>Put eight <abbr title="ounces">oz.</abbr> of sugar into a salad-bowl, and sprinkle thereon a few tablespoonfuls of water, that it may dissolve. Add one bottleful of excellent Bordeaux wine or red Burgundy, and the half of a lemon cut into thin slices. Stir the whole well with a silverspoon, and serve with a slice of lemon in each glass.</p>
		<p><abbr xml:lang="la" title="Nota bene" class="initialism">N.B.</abbr>—Always remember to free the lemons and oranges used of all pips, which would lend a bitterness to the drink.</p>
		<h2 id="2951" class="formula">Claret Cup</h2>
		<p>Put into a crystal bowl one <abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of loaf-sugar, the rind of one lemon and three slices of the latter, an equal quantity of orange, one strip of cucumber peel, one tablespoonful of Angostura Bitter, and a liqueur-glassful of each of the following liqueurs:—Brandy, Maraschino and white Curaçao.</p>
		<p>Complete with one and a half bottles of red wine and a bottle of Soda. Cover and let the whole infuse. Strain, add a few pieces of very clean ice and a few leaves of fresh mint.</p>
	</body>
</html>