<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Errata</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1 epub:type="title backmatter">Errata</h1>
		<p>Where <em>significant</em> alterations have been made to the original 1907 edition, they are noted below:</p>
		<div epub:type="errata">
		<h2>General</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt><abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dt>
				<dd>In the original, “<abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">etc.</abbr>” and “<abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>” are used interchangeably; this edition uses “<abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>” throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Carcase</dt>
				<dd>Whilst it is an acceptable variant spelling, it has been changed to the <abbr title="Oxford English Dictionary" class="initialism">O.E.D.</abbr>’s preferred “carcass”.</dd>
				<dt>Coffee-spoonful</dt>
				<dd>In the original, <em>coffee-spoonful</em> and <em>coffeespoonful</em> are used interchangeably, I have used <em>coffee-spoonful</em> throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Coulis</dt>
				<dd><em>Cullises</em> changed to <em>Coulis</em></dd>
				<dt>Gray</dt>
				<dd>Changed <em>gray</em> to <em>grey</em>.</dd>
				<dt>Half glaze</dt>
				<dd>In the original, <em>half glaze</em> and <em>half-glaze</em> are used interchangeably, I have used <em>half glaze</em> throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Meat glaze</dt>
				<dd>In the original, <em>meat glaze</em> and <em>meat-glaze</em> are used interchangeably, I have used <em>meat glaze</em> throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Profiteroles</dt>
				<dd>Changed the, <em>now</em> rather archaic, <em>profiterolles</em> to <em>profiteroles</em>.</dd>
				<dt>Recipe references</dt>
				<dd>In the original, <em>both</em> “Formula 102” and “Formula&#160;№102” are used to refer to recipes, this edition uses “Formula&#160;№102” throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Sauté-pan</dt>
				<dd>In the original, <em>sauté-pan</em> and <em>sautépan</em> are used interchangeably, I have used <em>sauté-pan</em> throughout.</dd>
				<dt>Pineapple</dt>
				<dd>Pine-apple has been changed to pineapple throughout.</dd>
			</dl>
			<h2>Specific</h2>
			<dl>
				<dt><a href="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml#0010">Formula&#160;№10 (<cite>White Veal Stock, Poultry Stock</cite>)</a></dt>
				<dd>
					<p>The original contains a misprint for the last listed ingredient:</p>
					<blockquote cite="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml#0010">
						<table>
							<thead>
								<tr>
									<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
									<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
								</tr>
								<tr>
									<th>Quantity</th>
									<th>Unit</th>
								</tr>
							</thead>
							<tbody>
								<tr>
									<td>faggot, including 1&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of parsley, 1&#160;bay leaf, and a of parsley, 1&#160;bay leaf, and a</td>
									<td colspan="2">1</td>
								</tr>
							</tbody>
						</table>
					</blockquote>
					<p>Based upon <a href="http://www.escoffier-online.com/white-veal-stock-recipe-poultry-stock-recipe">Escoffier Online’s translation from the Complete guide</a>, I have changed it to:</p>
					<blockquote cite="01-fonds-de-cuisine.xhtml#0010">
						<table>
							<thead>
								<tr>
									<th rowspan="2">Ingredient</th>
									<th colspan="2">Amount</th>
								</tr>
								<tr>
									<th>Quantity</th>
									<th>Unit</th>
								</tr>
							</thead>
							<tbody>
								<tr>
									<td>Faggot, including 1&#160;<abbr title="ounce">oz.</abbr> of parsley, 1&#160;bayleaf, and a small sprig of thyme.</td>
									<td colspan="2">1</td>
								</tr>
							</tbody>
						</table>
					</blockquote>
				</dd>
				<dt><a href="13-soups.xhtml#603">Consommé aux Profiteroles</a></dt>
				<dd>Corrected formula reference from <em><a href="02-the-leading-warm-sauces.xhtml#28">formula&#160;№28</a></em> to <em><a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#228">formula&#160;№228</a>.</em></dd>
				<dt><a href="13-soups.xhtml#607">Consommé Richelieu</a></dt>
				<dd>Existing list was inline for the first item and then a block list for the second two items. Changed all to inline.</dd>
			</dl>
		</div>
	</body>
</html>