<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<?xml-stylesheet href="css/book.css" type="text/css"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Glossary</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1 epub:type="title">Glossary</h1>
		<dl epub:type="glossary backmatter">
			<dt>Abats</dt>
			<dd>Stands for such butcher’s supplies as heads, hearts, livers, kidneys, feet, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Aiguillettes</dt>
			<dd><a href="16-relevés-and-entrees-of-poultry-and-game.xhtml#1755">See №1755</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Ailerons</dt>
			<dd><a href="16-relevés-and-entrees-of-poultry-and-game.xhtml#1583">See №1583</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Amourettes</dt>
			<dd><a href="15-relevés-and-entrees-of-butchers-meat.xhtml#1288">See №1288</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr" id="anglaise">Anglaise</dt>
			<dd>To treat <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, <a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#174">see №174</a>.</dd>
			<dd>To cook <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, means to cook plainly in water.</dd>
			<dd>A preparation of beaten eggs, oil, and seasoning.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Attereaux</dt>
			<dd><a href="15-relevés-and-entrees-of-butchers-meat.xhtml#1219">See №1219</a>.</dd>
			<dt id="baba-moulds">Baba-moulds</dt>
			<dd>A kind of small deep cylindrical mould, slightly wider at the top than at the bottom.</dd>
			<dt>Bain-Marie</dt>
			<dd>A hot-water bath in which utensils containing various culinary preparations are immersed to keep warm, or for the purpose of poaching or cooking.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Barquettes</dt>
			<dd><a href="11-hors-doeuvres.xhtml#314">See №314</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Biscottes</dt>
			<dd>A kind of rusks.</dd>
			<dt>Blanch</dt>
			<dt>Blanched</dt>
			<dd><a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#273">See №273</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Brandade</dt>
			<dd><a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#127">See №127</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Brunoise-fashion</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#cut-brunoise-fashion">Cut</a></em> below.</dd>
			<dt>Canapés</dt>
			<dd><a href="11-hors-doeuvres.xhtml#316">See №316</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Caramel Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Casserole (En)</dt>
			<dd><a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#250">See №250</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Cassolette</dt>
			<dd>A kind of hot hors-d’œuvre, moulded to the shape of a small
			drum.</dd>
			<dt>Cèpes</dt>
			<dd>A kind of mushroom (<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boletus_edulis"><span xml:lang="la">Boletus edulis</span></a>).</dd>
			<dt>Chartreuse-fashion</dt>
			<dd><a href="15-relevés-and-entrees-of-butchers-meat.xhtml#1220">See №1220</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Chiffonade</dt>
			<dd><a href="08-the-various-garnishes-for-soups.xhtml#215">See №215</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Chinois</dt>
			<dd>A very small green candied orange.</dd>
			<dt>Chipolata</dt>
			<dd>A kind of small sausages.</dd>
			<dt>Choux</dt>
			<dd>A kind of cake made from <a href="#pâté-a-choux">Pâte à Choux</a>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Cisel</dt>
			<dt>Ciseled</dt>
			<dd>To cut a vegetable after the manner of a chaff-cutting
			machine.</dd>
			<dt>Clothe</dt>
			<dt>Clothed</dt>
			<dt>Clothing (of moulds)</dt>
			<dd><a href="14-fish.xhtml#916">See №916</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Cocotte (En)</dt>
			<dd><a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#250">See №250</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Concass</dt>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Concassed</dt>
			<dd>To chop roughly.</dd>
			<dt>Contise</dt>
			<dd>To incise a piece of meat at stated intervals, and to insert slices of truffle, or other substance, into each incision.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Crépinettes</dt>
			<dd><a href="15-relevés-and-entrees-of-butchers-meat.xhtml#1410">See №1410</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Croustade</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2393">See №2393</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Croûtons</dt>
			<dd>Pieces of bread of various shapes and sizes, fried in butter. In the case of aspic jelly, croûtons stand for variously shaped pieces used in bordering dishes.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-brunoise-fashion">Cut, Brunoise-fashion</dt>
			<dd>To cut a product into small dice.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-julienne-fashion">Cut, Julienne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>To cut a product into match-shaped rods.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-paysanne-fashion">Cut, Paysanne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>To cut a product into triangles.</dd>
			<dt>Dariole-moulds</dt>
			<dd>Small <a href="#baba-moulds">Baba-moulds</a>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide" class="initialism">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Darne</dt>
			<dd><a href="07-elementary-preparations.xhtml#184">See №184</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Daubière</dt>
			<dd>An earthenware utensil used in the cooking of Daubes.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Écarlate (À l’)</dt>
			<dd>Salted meat is said to be à l’écarlate when it is swathed in a coat of scarlet jelly.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Escarole</dt>
			<dd>Batavia chicory.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Feuilletés</dt>
			<dd>A kind of puffs made from puff-paste.</dd>
			<dt id="flute-french-soup">Flute (French, soup)</dt>
			<dd>A long crisp roll of bread.</dd>
			<dt>Fondue</dt>
			<dd>A cheese preparation;</dd>
			<dd>A pulpy state to which such vegetables as tomatoes, sorrel, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, are reduced by cooking.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Fumet</dt>
			<dd>A kind of essence extracted from fish, game, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Galette</dt>
			<dd>A large quoit, made from puff-paste or short-paste, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Gaufrette</dt>
			<dd>A special wafer.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Génoise</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2376">See №2376</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Gild</dt>
			<dt>Gilding</dt>
			<dt>Gilded</dt>
			<dd>To cover an object with beaten eggs, by means of a brush;</dd>
			<dd>To give a golden sheen to objects by means of heat.</dd>
			<dt>Gratin</dt>
			<dt>Gratined</dt>
			<dd><a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#268">See №268 to 272</a> inclusive.</dd>
			<dt>Hatelet</dt>
			<dd>An ornamental skewer</dd>
			<dd>The word sometimes stands for Attereaux.</dd>
			<dt>Julienne</dt>
			<dd>Julienne-fashion, see <em><a href="#cut-julienne-fashion">Cut</a></em>.</dd>
			<dt>Langoustine</dt>
			<dd>A small variety of the Spiny Lobster.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Ball Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Crack Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Thread Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Macédoine</dt>
			<dd>A mixture of early-season vegetables or fruit.</dd>
			<dt>Madeleine-mould</dt>
			<dd>A mould in the shape of a narrow scallop-shell.</dd>
			<dt>Manied (said of butter)</dt>
			<dd><a href="04-cold-sauces-and-compound-butters.xhtml#151">See №151</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Marinade</dt>
			<dd><a href="06-the-court-bouillons-and-the-marinades.xhtml#168">See №168</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Meringue</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2382">See №2382</a>. <em>Meringued</em> = coated with meringue.</dd>
			<dt>Mirepoix</dt>
			<dd><a href="09-garnishing-preparations-for-relevés-and-entrees.xhtml#228">See №228</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Mise en place</dt>
			<dd>A general name given to those elementary preparations which are constantly resorted to during the various stages of most culinary operations.</dd>
			<dt>Morue</dt>
			<dd>Newfoundland or Iceland salt-cod.</dd>
			<dt>Mousses</dt>
			<dd>A class of light, hot or cold preparations of fish, meat, poultry, game, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and sweets, moulded in large moulds in sufficient quantities for several people.</dd>
			<dt>Mousselines</dt>
			<dd>Same as above, but moulded in small quantities at a time, enough for one person.</dd>
			<dt>Mousserons</dt>
			<dd>A kind of mushroom.</dd>
			<dt>Nappe Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Orgeat</dt>
			<dd>A beverage made from syrup and almonds.</dd>
			<dt>Oxalis</dt>
			<dd>A Mexican vegetable, allied to sorrel, of which the roots principally are eaten.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Paillettes au Parmesan</dt>
			<dd><a href="19-savouries.xhtml#2322">See №2322</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Palmettes</dt>
			<dd>Palm-shaped pieces of puff-paste, used in decorating.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Panés à l’Anglaise</dt>
			<dd>Treated <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, see <a href="#anglaise"><em xml:lang="fr">Anglaise</em></a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Pannequets</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2403">See №2403</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Papillate</dt>
			<dd><a href="15-relevés-and-entrees-of-butchers-meat.xhtml#1259">See №1259</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr" id="pâté-a-choux">Pâte à Choux</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2373">See №2373</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Paupiette</dt>
			<dd>A strip of chicken, of fish fillet, or other meat, garnished with forcemeat, rolled to resemble a scroll and cooked.</dd>
			<dt>Paysanne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>See <a href="#cut-paysanne-fashion">Cut</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Pluches</dt>
			<dd>The shreds of chervil, used for soups.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poële</dt>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poëling</dt>
			<dd><a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#250">See №250</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poêle (À la)</dt>
			<dd><a href="12-eggs.xhtml#395">See №395</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Pralin</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2352">See №2352</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Pralined</dt>
			<dd>Having been treated with Pralin, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide" class="initialism">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Printanier (<abbr title="English">Eng.</abbr> Vernal)</dt>
			<dd>A name given to a garnish of early-season vegetables, cut to various shapes.</dd>
			<dt>Profiteroles</dt>
			<dd><a href="08-the-various-garnishes-for-soups.xhtml#218">See №218</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Râble</dt>
			<dd>The back of a hare.</dd>
			<dt>Ravioli</dt>
			<dd><a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2296">See №2296</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Ribbon Stage</dt>
			<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2376">See №2376</a>.</dd>
			<dt>Rissole</dt>
			<dd>To fry brown.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Salpicon</dt>
			<dd>A compound of various products, cut into dice, and, generally, cohered with sauce or forcemeat.</dd>
			<dt>Sauté, Sautéd</dt>
			<dd>A process of cooking described under <a href="10-leading-culinary-operations.xhtml#251">№251</a>.</dd>
			<dd>A qualifying term applied to dishes treated in the way described under №251.</dd>
			<dt>Savarin-mould</dt>
			<dd>An even, crown-shaped mould.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Ball Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Crack Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Thread Stage</dt>
			<dd>See <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Soufflé</dt>
			<dd>Name given to a class of light, hot or cold preparations of fish, meat, poultry, game, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and sweets, to which the whites of eggs are usually added if the preparation is served hot, and to which whisked cream is added if the preparation is served cold.</dd>
			<dt>Soup-Flute</dt>
			<dd>See <a href="#flute-french-soup">Flute</a>.</dd>
			<dt id="stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar:—</dt>
			<dd>
				<dl>
					<dt>Small-Thread</dt>
					<dt>Large-Thread</dt>
					<dt>Small-Ball</dt>
					<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2344">See №2344</a>.</dd>
					<dt>Large-Ball</dt>
					<dt>Small-Crack</dt>
					<dt>Large-Crack</dt>
					<dt>Caramel</dt>
					<dd><a href="20-entremets-sweets.xhtml#2344">See №2344</a>.</dd>
					<dt>Nappe</dt>
					<dd><a href="23-fruit-stews-and-jams.xhtml#2955">See №2955</a>.</dd>
				</dl>
			</dd>
			<dt>Subrics</dt>
			<dd><a href="18-vegetables-and-farinaceous-products.xhtml#2137">See №2137</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Suprême</dt>
			<dd>A name given to the fillet of the breast of a fowl. The term has been extended to certain of the best parts of fish, game, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Terrine</dt>
			<dd>A patty.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Terrine à Pâté</dt>
			<dd>A special utensil in which patties are cooked.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Tomatéd</dt>
			<dd>Preparations are said to be tomatéd when they are mixed with enough tomato purée for the shade and flavour of the latter to be distinctly perceptible in them.</dd>
			<dt>Vesiga</dt>
			<dd>The dried spine-marrow of the sturgeon.</dd>
			<dt>Zest</dt>
			<dd>The outermost, coloured, glossy film of the rind of an orange or lemon.</dd>
		</dl>
	</body>
</html>