<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en-gb-oxendict">
	<head>
		<title>Glossary</title>
	</head>
	<body>
		<h1>Glossary</h1>
		<dl>
			<dt>Abats</dt>
			<dd>stands for such butcher’s supplies as heads, hearts, livers, kidneys, feet, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Aiguillettes</dt>
			<dd>see №1755.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Ailerons</dt>
			<dd>see №1583.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Amourettes</dt>
			<dd>see №1288.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr" id="anglaise">Anglaise</dt>
			<dd>to treat <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, see №174.</dd>
			<dd>to cook <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, means to cook plainly in water.</dd>
			<dd>a preparation of beaten eggs, oil, and seasoning.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Attereaux</dt>
			<dd>see №1219.</dd>
			<dt id="baba-moulds">Baba-moulds</dt>
			<dd>a kind of small deep cylindrical mould, slightly wider at the top than at the bottom.</dd>
			<dt>Bain-Marie</dt>
			<dd>a hot-water bath in which utensils containing various culinary preparations are immersed to keep warm, or for the purpose of poaching or cooking.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Barquettes</dt>
			<dd>see №314.</dd>
			<dt>Biscottes</dt>
			<dd>a kind of rusks.</dd>
			<dt>Blanch</dt>
			<dt>Blanched</dt>
			<dd>see №273.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Brandade</dt>
			<dd>see №127.</dd>
			<dt>Brunoise-fashion</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#cut-brunoise-fashion">Cut</a></em> below.</dd>
			<dt>Canapés</dt>
			<dd>see №316.</dd>
			<dt>Caramel Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Casserole (En)</dt>
			<dd>see №250.</dd>
			<dt>Cassolette</dt>
			<dd>a kind of hot hors-d’œuvre, moulded to the shape of a small
			drum.</dd>
			<dt>Cèpes</dt>
			<dd>a kind of mushroom (<a href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Boletus_edulis"><span xml:lang="la">Boletus edulis</span></a>).</dd>
			<dt>Chartreuse-fashion</dt>
			<dd>see №1220.</dd>
			<dt>Chiffonade</dt>
			<dd>see №215.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Chinois</dt>
			<dd>a very small green candied orange.</dd>
			<dt>Chipolata</dt>
			<dd>a kind of small sausages.</dd>
			<dt>Choux</dt>
			<dd>a kind of cake made from <a href="#pate-a-choux">Pâte à Choux</a>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Cisel</dt>
			<dt>Ciseled</dt>
			<dd>to cut a vegetable after the manner of a chaff-cutting
			machine.</dd>
			<dt>Clothe</dt>
			<dt>Clothed</dt>
			<dt>Clothing (of moulds)</dt>
			<dd>see №916.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Cocotte (En)</dt>
			<dd>see №250.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Concass</dt>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Concassed</dt>
			<dd>to chop roughly.</dd>
			<dt>Contise</dt>
			<dd>to incise a piece of meat at stated intervals, and to insert slices of truffle, or other substance, into each incision.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Crépinettes</dt>
			<dd>see №1410.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Croustade</dt>
			<dd>see №2393.</dd>
			<dt>Croûtons</dt>
			<dd>pieces of bread of various shapes and sizes, fried in butter. In the case of aspic jelly, croûtons stand for variously shaped pieces used in bordering dishes.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-brunoise-fashion">Cut, Brunoise-fashion</dt>
			<dd>to cut a product into small dice.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-julienne-fashion">Cut, Julienne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>to cut a product into match-shaped rods.</dd>
			<dt id="cut-paysanne-fashion">Cut, Paysanne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>to cut a product into triangles.</dd>
			<dt>Dariole-moulds</dt>
			<dd>small <a href="#baba-moulds">Baba-moulds</a>, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide" class="initialism">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Darne</dt>
			<dd>see №184.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Daubière</dt>
			<dd>an earthenware utensil used in the cooking of Daubes.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Écarlate (À l’)</dt>
			<dd>salted meat is said to be à l’écarlate when it is swathed in a coat of scarlet jelly.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Escarole</dt>
			<dd>Batavia chicory.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Feuilletés</dt>
			<dd>a kind of puffs made from puff-paste.</dd>
			<dt id="flute-french-soup">Flute (French, soup)</dt>
			<dd>a long crisp roll of bread.</dd>
			<dt>Fondue</dt>
			<dd>a cheese preparation;</dd>
			<dd>a pulpy state to which such vegetables as tomatoes, sorrel, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, are reduced by cooking.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Fumet</dt>
			<dd>a kind of essence extracted from fish, game, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Galette</dt>
			<dd>a large quoit, made from puff-paste or short-paste, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Gaufrette</dt>
			<dd>a special wafer.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Génoise</dt>
			<dd>see №2376.</dd>
			<dt>Gild</dt>
			<dt>Gilding</dt>
			<dt>Gilded</dt>
			<dd>to cover an object with beaten eggs, by means of a brush;</dd>
			<dd>to give a golden sheen to objects by means of heat.</dd>
			<dt>Gratin</dt>
			<dt>Gratined</dt>
			<dd>see №268 to 272 inclusive.</dd>
			<dt>Hatelet</dt>
			<dd>an ornamental skewer</dd>
			<dd>the word sometimes stands for Attereaux.</dd>
			<dt>Julienne</dt>
			<dd>Julienne-fashion, see <em><a href="#cut-julienne-fashion">Cut</a></em>.</dd>
			<dt>Langoustine</dt>
			<dd>a small variety of the Spiny Lobster.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Ball Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Crack Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Large-Thread Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Macédoine</dt>
			<dd>a mixture of early-season vegetables or fruit.</dd>
			<dt>Madeleine-mould</dt>
			<dd>a mould in the shape of a narrow scallop-shell.</dd>
			<dt>Manied (said of butter)</dt>
			<dd>see №151.</dd>
			<dt>Marinade</dt>
			<dd>see №168.</dd>
			<dt>Meringue</dt>
			<dd>see №2382. <em>Meringued</em> = coated with meringue.</dd>
			<dt>Mirepoix</dt>
			<dd>see №228.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Mise-en-place</dt>
			<dd>a general name given to those elementary preparations which are constantly resorted to during the various stages of most culinary operations.</dd>
			<dt>Morue</dt>
			<dd>Newfoundland or Iceland salt-cod.</dd>
			<dt>Mousses</dt>
			<dd>a class of light, hot or cold preparations of fish, meat, poultry, game, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and sweets, moulded in large moulds in sufficient quantities for several people.</dd>
			<dt>Mousselines</dt>
			<dd>same as above, but moulded in small quantities at a time, enough for one person.</dd>
			<dt>Mousserons</dt>
			<dd>a kind of mushroom.</dd>
			<dt>Nappe Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Orgeat</dt>
			<dd>a beverage made from syrup and almonds.</dd>
			<dt>Oxalis</dt>
			<dd>a Mexican vegetable, allied to sorrel, of which the roots principally are eaten.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Paillettes au Parmesan</dt>
			<dd>see №2322.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Palmettes</dt>
			<dd>palm-shaped pieces of puff-paste, used in decorating.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Panés à l’Anglaise</dt>
			<dd>treated <span xml:lang="fr">à l’Anglaise</span>, see <a href="#anglaise"><em xml:lang="fr">Anglaise</em></a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Pannequets</dt>
			<dd>see №2403.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Papillate</dt>
			<dd>see №1259.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr" id="pate-a-choux">Pâte à Choux</dt>
			<dd>see №2373.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Paupiette</dt>
			<dd>a strip of chicken, of fish fillet, or other meat, garnished with forcemeat, rolled to resemble a scroll and cooked.</dd>
			<dt>Paysanne-fashion</dt>
			<dd>see <a href="#cut-paysanne-fashion">Cut</a>.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Pluches</dt>
			<dd>the shreds of chervil, used for soups.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poële</dt>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poëling</dt>
			<dd>see №250.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Poêle (À la)</dt>
			<dd>see №395.</dd>
			<dt>Pralin</dt>
			<dd>see №2352.</dd>
			<dt>Pralined</dt>
			<dd>having been treated with Pralin, <abbr xml:lang="la" title="quod vide" class="initialism">q.v.</abbr></dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Printanier (<abbr title="English">Eng.</abbr> Vernal)</dt>
			<dd>a name given to a garnish of early-season vegetables, cut to various shapes.</dd>
			<dt>Profiterolles</dt>
			<dd>see №218.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Râble</dt>
			<dd>the back of a hare.</dd>
			<dt>Ravioli</dt>
			<dd>see №2296.</dd>
			<dt>Ribbon Stage</dt>
			<dd>see №2376.</dd>
			<dt>Rissole</dt>
			<dd>to fry brown.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Salpicon</dt>
			<dd>a compound of various products, cut into dice, and, generally, cohered with sauce or forcemeat.</dd>
			<dt>Sauté, Sautéd</dt>
			<dd>a process of cooking described under №251.</dd>
			<dd>a qualifying term applied to dishes treated in the way described under №251.</dd>
			<dt>Savarin-mould</dt>
			<dd>an even, crown-shaped mould.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Ball Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Crack Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Small-Thread Stage</dt>
			<dd>see <em><a href="#stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar</a></em>, below.</dd>
			<dt>Soufflé</dt>
			<dd>name given to a class of light, hot or cold preparations of fish, meat, poultry, game, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr>, and sweets, to which the whites of eggs are usually added if the preparation is served hot, and to which whisked cream is added if the preparation is served cold.</dd>
			<dt>Soup-Flute</dt>
			<dd>see <a href="#flute-french-soup">Flute</a>.</dd>
			<dt id="stages-in-the-cooking-of-sugar">Stages in the Cooking of Sugar:—</dt>
			<dd>
				<dl>
					<dt>Small-Thread</dt>
					<dt>Large-Thread</dt>
					<dt>Small-Ball</dt>
					<dd>See №2344.</dd>
					<dt>Large-Ball</dt>
					<dt>Small-Crack</dt>
					<dt>Large-Crack</dt>
					<dt>Caramel</dt>
					<dd>№2344</dd>
					<dt>Nappe</dt>
					<dd>see №2955.</dd>
				</dl>
			</dd>
			<dt>Subrics</dt>
			<dd>see №2137.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Suprême</dt>
			<dd>a name given to the fillet of the breast of a fowl. The term has been extended to certain of the best parts of fish, game, <abbr lang="la" title="et cetera">&amp;c.</abbr></dd>
			<dt>Terrine</dt>
			<dd>a patty.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Terrine à Pâté</dt>
			<dd>a special utensil in which patties are cooked.</dd>
			<dt xml:lang="fr">Tomatéd</dt>
			<dd>Preparations are said to be tomatéd when they are mixed with enough tomato purée for the shade and flavour of the latter to be distinctly perceptible in them.</dd>
			<dt>Vesiga</dt>
			<dd>the dried spine-marrow of the sturgeon.</dd>
			<dt>Zest</dt>
			<dd>the outermost, coloured, glossy film of the rind of an orange or lemon.</dd>
		</dl>
	</body>
</html>